What's New in V3R1?

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > About ILE COBOL Language Reference > What's New > What's New

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > About ILE COBOL Language Reference > What's New

What's New in V3R1?
The following list describes the enhancements made to ILE COBOL in V3R1:
EXTERNAL data items You can define data items that are available
to every program in the ILE COBOL run
unit by using the EXTERNAL clause. No longer do you need to pass
all variables that are to be shared across programs as arguments on
the CALL statement. This support encourages greater modularity of
applications by allowing data to be shared without using arguments
and parameters on the CALL statement.

EXTERNAL files You can define files that are available to every
program in the run unit. You can seamlessly make I/O requests to
the same file from any ILE COBOL program
within the run unit that declares the file as EXTERNAL. For external
files there is only one file cursor regardless of the number of programs
that use the file. You can share files across programs, and thereby
develop smaller, more maintainable programs. Using EXTERNAL files
provides advantages over using shared open files since only one OPEN
and CLOSE operation is needed for all participating programs to use
the file. However, an EXTERNAL file cannot be shared among different
activation groups nor with programs written in other programming languages.

Nested Source Programs An ILE COBOL source program can
contain other ILE COBOL source
programs. These contained programs may refer to some of the resources,
such as data items and files, of the programs within which they are
contained or define their own resources locally, which are only visible
in the defining program. As the ILE COBOL programs are themselves
resources, their scope is also controlled by the nesting structure
and the scope attribute attached to the program. This provides greater
flexibility in controlling the set of ILE COBOL programs that can
be called by an ILE COBOL program.
Nested ILE COBOL programs
provides a mechanism to hide resources that would otherwise be visible.

INITIAL Clause You have a mechanism whereby an ILE COBOL program and any
programs contained within it are placed in their initial state every
time they are called. This is accomplished by specifying INITIAL
in the PROGRAM-ID paragraph. This provides additional flexibility
in controlling the COBOL run unit.

REPLACE statement The REPLACE statement is useful to replace
source program text during the compilation process. It operates on
the entire file or until another REPLACE statement is encountered,
unlike the COPY directive with the REPLACING phrase. The REPLACE statements
are processed after all COPY statements have been processed. This
provides greater flexibility in changing the ILE COBOL text to be compiled.

DISPLAY WITH NO ADVANCING statement By using the NO ADVANCING
phrase on the DISPLAY statement, you have the capability to leave
the cursor following the last character that is displayed. This allows
you to string together items to be displayed on a single line from
various points in the ILE COBOL program.

ACCEPT FROM DAY-OF-WEEK statement ILE COBOL now allows you to
accept the day of the week (Monday = 1, Tuesday = 2 ...) and assign
it to an identifier. This support complements the existing ACCEPT
FROM DAY/DATE/TIME support.

SELECT OPTIONAL clause for Relative Files This allows for the
automatic creation of relative files even when the file is opened
I-O. This extends the support that is already available for sequential
files.

Support for Nested COPY statements Copy members can contain
COPY statements thereby extending the power of the COPY statement.
If a COPY member contains a COPY directive, neither the containing
COPY directive nor the contained COPY directive can specify the REPLACING
phrase.

Enhancements to Extended ACCEPT and DISPLAY statements You
can work with tables on the Extended ACCEPT statement. This allows
you to easily and selectively update the elements of the table.
Variable
length tables are also allowed on the Extended ACCEPT and DISPLAY
statements.
Also, the SIZE clause is supported on the extended
ACCEPT statement.

Procedure-pointer support Procedure-pointer is a new data type
that can contain the address of an ILE COBOL program or a non-ILE COBOL program. Procedure-pointers
are defined by specifying the USAGE IS PROCEDURE-POINTER clause on
a data item. This new data type is useful in calling programs and
or ILE procedures
that are expecting this type of data item as its parameter. Procedure-pointer
data items can also be used as the target of a CALL statement to call
another program.

New Special Registers RETURN-CODE special register Allows return information to be
passed between ILE COBOL programs.
Typically, this register is used to pass information about the success
or failure of a called program.

SORT-RETURN special register Returns information about success
of a SORT or MERGE statement. It also allows you to terminate processing
of a SORT/MERGE from within an error declarative or an input-output
procedure.

New Compiler options *PICGGRAPHIC/*NOPICGGRAPHIC *PICGGRAPHIC is a new parameter
for the CVTOPT option which allows the user to bring DBCS data into
their ILE COBOL program.

*IMBEDERR/*NOIMBEDERR option *IMBEDERR is a new compiler option
which includes compile time errors at the point of occurrence in the
compiler listing as well as at the end of the listing.

*FLOAT/*NOFLOAT *FLOAT is a new parameter for the CVTOPT option
which allows you to bring floating-point data items into your ILE COBOL programs with their
DDS names and a USAGE of COMP-1 (single-precision) or COMP-2 (double-precision).

*NOSTDTRUNC/*STDTRUNC option *NOSTDTRUNC is a new compiler
option which suppresses the truncation of values in BINARY data items.
This option is useful in migrating applications from IBM® System/390® (S/390®).

*CHGPOSSGN/*NOCHGPOSSGN option This option is useful when sharing
data between the IBM i and IBM S/390®.
This option is provided for IBM System/390 compatibility.
It changes the bit representation of signed packed and zoned data
items when they are used in arithmetic statements or MOVE statements
and the values in these data items are positive.

Quoted system names support Support has been added to allow
literals where system-names are allowed. You can use whatever names
the system supports and is no longer limited to valid COBOL names.

There is no COBOL limit on the following functions as these are
now determined by system constraints. Number of declared files.
Number of parameters on the CALL statement and on the Procedure
Division USING phrase. A system limit of 400 for ILE procedures and 255
for program objects does apply here.
Number of SORT-MERGE input files and the number of SORT-MERGE
keys. The maximum number of SORT-MERGE input files is 32 and the maximum
length of the SORT-MERGE key is 2000 bytes.

START with NO LOCK statement. By using the NO LOCK phrase on
the START statement, the file cursor will be positioned on the first
record to be read without placing a lock on the record. This support
is provided for indexed and relative files and complements the READ
with NO LOCK function that is already available. Note: START with
NO LOCK is a new statement in both ILE COBOL and OPM COBOL/400.

Static procedure call support You can develop your applications
in smaller, better maintainable module objects, and link them together
as one program object, without incurring the penalty of dynamic program
call overhead. This facility, together with the common runtime environment
provided by the system, also improves your ability to write mixed
language applications. The ILE programming languages
permits the binding of C, RPG, COBOL, and CL into a single program
object regardless of the mix of source languages.
New syntax
on the CALL literal statement and a new compiler option have been
added to ILE COBOL to
differentiate between static procedure calls and dynamic program calls.

Variable Length Record support (RECORD IS VARYING Clause) You
can define and easily use different length records on the same file
using standard ANSI COBOL syntax.
Not only does this provide great savings in storage but it also eases
the task of migrating complex applications from other systems.

Expanded compiler limits ILE COBOL now offers expanded
compiler limits: size of group and elementary data items
size of fixed and variable length tables
number of nesting levels for conditional statements
number of operands in various Procedure Division statements

Parent topic: What's New