Change License Information (CHGLICINF)

Change License Information (CHGLICINF)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Change License Information (CHGLICINF) command allows a user to change the following license information for a product or feature:

- The usage limit for products that do not have keyed compliance (keyed compliance requires that you have a software license key from the software provider in order to change the usage limit of the license information)

- The threshold

- The users to notify when the threshold is exceeded, when an attempt to exceed the usage limit is made, or when the usage limit is changed

- The logging of usage requests.

Restriction: This command is shipped with public *EXCLUDE authority.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
PRDID | Product identifier | Character value | Required, Key, Positional 1
LICTRM | License term | Character value, *ONLY | Optional, Key, Positional 2
FEATURE | Feature | Character value, 5001 | Optional, Key, Positional 3
USGLMT | Usage limit | 0-999999, *SAME, *NOMAX, *ALTUSGLMT | Optional
ALTUSGLMT | Alternate usage limit | Element list | Optional
Element 1: Identified usage | 0-999999, *SAME
Element 2: Unidentified usage | 0-999999, *SAME
THRESHOLD | Threshold | 0-999999, *SAME, *CALC, *USGLMT | Optional
MSGQ | Message queue | Single values: *SAME, *NONE, *OPSYS
Other values (up to 5 repetitions): Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Message queue | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
LOG | Log | *SAME, *NO, *YES | Optional

Top

Product identifier (PRDID)

Specifies the 7-character identifier (ID) of the product for which license information is to be changed.

This is a required parameter.

Top

License term (LICTRM)

Specifies the license term for which license information is to be changed.

*ONLY
Only one license term of the product is on the system and that license term identifies the product to be changed.

license-term
The license term can be passed as one of the following two formats:
Specify the license term in Vx, VxRy, or VxRyMz format, where x and y can be a number from 0 through 9 and z can be a number from 0 through 9 or a letter from A through Z.

Specify the license term in vv, vvrr, or vvrrmm format, where vv and rr can be a number from 00 through 35, and mm can be a number 00 through 09 or a letter 0A through 0Z. This format must be used if the version or release of the product is greater than 9.

Use the Work with License Information (WRKLICINF) command to determine the license term.

Top

Feature (FEATURE)

Specifies the feature of the product specified on the Product identifier (PRDID) parameter for which license information is to be changed. You can use the Work with License Information (WRKLICINF) command to identify the feature number of the product.

5001
The license information for the feature 5001 is to be changed.

feature
Specify the feature for which license information is to be changed. Valid values range from 5001 through 9999.

Top

Usage limit (USGLMT)

Specifies the maximum number of users (usage limit) for this product or feature. The software provider authorizes the usage limit. For a concurrent usage limit, this is the maximum number of jobs allowed to access the product or feature at any given time. For a registered usage limit, this is the maximum number of license users that can be registered to use this product or feature.

Note: To change the usage limit for products using keyed compliance, you must use the Add License Key Information (ADDLICKEY) command.

*SAME
The value does not change.

*NOMAX
The number of users is not limited.

*ALTUSGLMT
The usage limit is the sum of the identified usage and the unidentified usage specified on the Alternate usage limit (ALTUSGLMT) parameter.

usage-limit
Specify the maximum number of users for this product or feature. Valid values range from 0 through 999999.

Top

Alternate usage limit (ALTUSGLMT)

The alternate usage limit specifies the identified usage and the unidentified usage for this product or feature. The usage limit becomes the sum of the identified and unidentified usage.

The possible identified usage values are:

*SAME
The value does not change.

identified-usage
Specify the maximum number of users that can be counted by this product or feature. Valid values range from 0 through 999999.

The possible unidentified usage values are:

*SAME
The value does not change.

unidentified-usage
Specify the maximum number of users that cannot be counted by this product or feature. Valid values range from 0 through 999999.

Note: The number of users specified for unidentified usage will always exist as part of the current usage for this product or feature.

Top

Threshold (THRESHOLD)

Specifies the threshold for this product or feature. When the number of users for this product exceeds the threshold, a message is sent to the system operator's message queue (QSYS/QSYSOPR) and to the message queues specified on the Message queue (MSGQ) parameter.

Note: If you specify a value equal to the usage limit, no threshold messages are sent. Messages are sent only when an attempt to exceed the usage limit is made, or when the usage limit is changed.

*SAME
The value does not change.

*CALC
The system calculates the threshold for this product or feature. The calculated threshold is equal to 90 percent of the usage limit (maximum number of users specified on the Usage limit (USGLMT) parameter). If the usage limit is 1 or *NOMAX, the threshold is equal to the usage limit.

*USGLMT
The threshold for this product or feature is equal to its usage limit.

threshold
Specify the threshold for this product or feature. Valid values range from 0 through 999999.

Top

Message queue (MSGQ)

Specifies the qualified names of a maximum of five message queues to which messages are sent if (1) the threshold is exceeded, (2) an attempt to exceed the usage limit is made, or (3) the usage limit is changed. These messages are also sent to the system operator's message queue (QSYS/QSYSOPR).

*SAME
The value does not change.

*NONE
Messages are sent only to the system operator's message queue (QSYS/QSYSOPR).

*OPSYS
Messages are sent to the message queues defined in the license information for the operating system.

The name of the message queue can be qualified by one of the following library values:

*LIBL
All libraries in the library list for the current thread are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the thread is searched. If no library is specified as the current library for the thread, the QGPL library is searched.

library-name
Specify the name of the library to be searched.

message-queue-name
Specify the name of the message queue to which messages are sent.

Top

Log (LOG)

Specifies whether to record requests to use the product or feature when the usage count is equal to the usage limit. If requests are recorded, they are recorded in the QLZALOG journal in QUSRSYS.

*SAME
The value does not change.

*NO
The requests made when the usage count is equal to the usage limit are not recorded.

*YES
The requests made when the usage count is equal to the usage limit are recorded. When a license request is made and the usage count is equal to the usage limit, the user requesting a license and all current license users are recorded in the QLZALOG journal in QUSRSYS.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Changing the Usage Limit for a Product with One License Term on the System

CHGLICINF PRDID(1MYPROD) LICTRM(*ONLY)
USGLMT(35) THRESHOLD(30)
MSGQ(MYLIB/MYMSGQ) LOG(*NO)

This command allows you to change the usage limit for the product with product identifier 1MYPROD which has only one license term installed on this system. After this command is run, 35 users will be authorized to use this product. When the usage count reaches 31, messages will be sent to the system operator's message queue and the message queue MYMSGQ in the library MYLIB stating that the threshold has been exceeded. Requests for a license when the usage count is equal to the usage limit will not be recorded. However, changes to the usage limit will be recorded in the QLZALOG journal in QUSRSYS.

Example 2: Changing the Usage Limit for a Product with More Than One License Term on the System

CHGLICINF PRDID(2MYPROD) LICTRM(V2)
USGLMT(50) THRESHOLD(*USGLMT)
MSGQ(*NONE) LOG(*YES)

This command allows you to change the usage limit for the product with product identifier 2MYPROD and license term Version 2. After this command is run, 50 users will be authorized to use this product. No threshold messages will be sent. (However, messages will be sent to the system operator whenever the usage limit is changed or the usage count reaches or exceeds the usage limit.) A request for a license when the usage count is equal to the usage limit will be recorded in the QLZALOG journal in QUSRSYS.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF9E2C
LICTRM(*ONLY) cannot be specified.

CPF9E2D
Usage limit cannot be less than current usage.

CPF9E27
Usage limit cannot be changed for *KEYED compliance product.

CPF9E28
Message queue *OPSYS not allowed for operating system.

CPF9E30
License information not changed.

CPF9E88
Alternate usage limit cannot be less than current usage.

Top