Variable name

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Parameter values > Parameter values

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Parameter values

Variable name
A variable contains a data value that can be
changed when a program is run. A variable name is the name of
the variable that contains the value.
The variable is used in a command to pass the value that it contains
at the time the command is run. The change in value can result if one of the
following conditions occur: the value is received from a data area, a display
device file field, or a message; the value is passed as a parameter; a Change
Variable (CHGVAR) command is run in the program; or another program
that is called changes the value before returning it.
The types of variables
are character string (includes names), decimal, logical, and integer. Decimal
and logical values must match the type of value expected for the parameter.
Character variables can specify any type of value. For example, if a decimal
value is expected, it can be specified by a character variable as well as
by a decimal variable.
The variable name identifies a value to be used;
the name points to where the actual data value is. Because CL variables are
valid only in CL programs, they are often called CL program variables or
CL variables. CL variable names must begin with an ampersand
(&).
CL variables can be used to specify values for almost all parameters
of CL commands. When a CL variable is specified as a parameter value and the
command containing it is run, the current value of the variable is used as
the parameter value. That is, the variable value is passed as if the user
had specified the value as a constant.
Because it is generally true
that CL variables can be used for most parameters of commands in CL programs,
the command descriptions typically do not mention CL variables. For parameters
that are restricted to constants only (such as in the DCL command), to CL
variables only (such as all of the parameters of the Retrieve Job
Attributes (RTVJOBA) command), or to specific types of variables
(such as on the RTVJOBA or Retrieve Message (RTVMSG) command),
the individual parameter descriptions specify those limitations. Otherwise,
if the command is allowed in a CL program, CL variables can be used in place
of a value, even with parameters that accept only predefined values. For example,
a KEEP parameter having only predefined values of *YES and *NO can have a
CL variable specified instead; its value can then be changed to *YES or *NO,
depending on its value when the command is run.
A CL variable must contain
only one value; it may not contain a list of values separated by blanks.
The
value of any CL program variable can be defined as one of the following types:
Character: A character string that can contain a maximum of 9999 characters.
The character string can be coded in quoted or unquoted form, but only the
characters in the string itself are stored in the variable.
Decimal: A packed decimal value that can contain a maximum of 15 digits,
of which no more than nine can be decimal positions.
Logical: A logical value of '1' or '0' that represents on/off, true/false,
or yes/no.
Integer: A two-byte or four-byte binary integer value that can be either
signed (value may be positive or negative) or unsigned (value is always positive).

Table 1. CL program variablesIf value is:
CL variable can be declared as:

Name
Character

Date or time
Character

Character string
Character

Numeric
Decimal or integer or character

Logical
Logical or character

Parent topic: Parameter values

Related concepts
Additional rules for unique names