CHCACCEL (Choice Accelerator Text) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

CHCACCEL (Choice Accelerator Text) keyword for display files

You use this field-level keyword on a single-choice
selection field in a pull-down record to specify text for the accelerator
key.

Note: CHCACCEL only specifies the text that should describe the
accelerator key. It does not enable the function key.
The format
of the keyword is: CHCACCEL(choice-number accelerator-text)
The
choice-number parameter specifies the number of the choice on the single selection
field that this keyword applies to. Valid values are 1 to 99.
The accelerator-text
parameter specifies the text identifying the accelerator key. The parameter
can be specified in one of two forms:
As a character string: 'Accelerator text'

As a program-to-system field: &field-name

The field specified must exist in the same record as the selection
field and must be defined as a character field with usage P. This text is
placed 3 spaces to the right of the maximum length of the choice text. The
maximum length of the accelerator text is determined by the length of the
longest choice text. The combination of the two must not exceed the width
of the smallest display size specified for the file.
The CHCACCEL keyword
is allowed only on single-choice selection fields (SNGCHCFLD keyword specified
on the same field) in pull-down records (PULLDOWN keyword specified at the
record level).
Option indicators are not valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the CHCACCEL keyword:
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A
A R PULLEDIT CF04 CF06
A PULLDOWN
A F1 2Y 0B 1 2SNGCHCFLD
A CHOICE(1 '>Undo')
A CHOICE(2 '>Mark')
A CHOICE(3 '>Copy')
A CHCACCEL(1 'F4')
A CHCACCEL(2 &F6);
A F6 2A PIn this example, choice
1 has the accelerator key CF04 and choice 2 has the accelerator key CF06.
When the pull-down menu is displayed, the character text F4 appears to the
right of the text 'Undo', with 3 spaces in between, and the text in field
F6 appears to the right of the text 'Mark', with 3 spaces in between. The
longest choice text determines the length of all choice text. The same is
true for the ACCEL text. The ACCEL text is then started 3 spaces to the right
of the longest choice.