Print Report (PRTRPTOND)

Print Report (PRTRPTOND)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Print Report (PRTRPTOND) command prints the specified Content Manager OnDemand report in its entirety.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
APPGRP | Application group | Character value | Required, Positional 1
RPTID | Report ID | Character value | Required, Positional 2
PRINTER | Printer | Character value, *OUTQ | Required, Positional 3
OUTQ | Output queue | Single values: *JOB
Other values: Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Output queue | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
INSTANCE | Instance | Character value, *DFT | Optional
STRSVR | Start instance server | *NO, *YES | Optional
SBMJOB | Submit to batch | *YES, *NO | Optional
JOBNAME | Print Report job name | Name, *DFT, *APPGRP | Optional
JOBD | Job description | Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Job description | Name, QOND400
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, QRDARS, *LIBL, *CURLIB
RTVLODORD | Retrieve in load order | *YES, *NO | Optional

Top

Application group (APPGRP)

Specifies the name of the application group that contains the report to print.

This is a required parameter.

Note: Position the cursor in the application group parameter entry and use the prompt (F4) key to view the list of application group values that are available for the default (*DFT) instance.

The default instance is specified in the QDFTINST data area. The QDFTINST data area can exist in multiple libraries. A search for the QDFTINST data area is performed by using the library list. The first data area that is found is used. If the QDFTINST data area is not found by using the library list, the QUSRRDARS library is searched for the data area. If the data area exists in the QUSRRDARS library, it is used. If the QDFTINST data area is not found, instance QUSROND is used.

If the value contains lowercase letters, blanks, or special characters, it must be enclosed in single quotation marks.

Top

Report ID (RPTID)

Specifies the report ID of the report to print. Only the documents to which the user is authorized are included. If you require the pages of the report to print in the order in which they were loaded, use the RTVLODORD parameter with a value of *YES. WARNING: When using the RTVLODORD parameter with a value of *YES, Content Manager OnDemand cannot retrieve any documents that have index values that have been updated. Do not specify *YES unless you are certain that no indexes have been changed. If you have updated any indexes, use *NO instead.

This is a required parameter.

The report ID is also known as the load ID and is found in the Content Manager OnDemand System Load folder or the System Log folder in the message text for message number 87, both generated when an input file is successfully loaded into the system. The report ID contains the value that Content Manager OnDemand generates to uniquely identify an input file, such as 5547-4-0-2FAA-20130313000000-20130313000000-5548. The report ID contains the following parts:

agid-pri_nid-sec_nid-docid-start_date-stop_date-aid

agid
Application group identifier.

pri_nid
Primary storage node.

sec_nid
Secondary storage node.

docid
Document identifier.

start_date
First date in the report. The format of the date is YYYYMMDDHHMMSS. Loads created with versions of Content Manager OnDemand prior to server version 9.0 use an older, internal date format for this part.

Note: If you do not know the start date, the value of this part can be specified as 0.

stop_date
Last date in the report. The format of the date is YYYYMMDDHHMMSS. Loads created with versions of Content Manager OnDemand prior to server version 9.0 use an older, internal date format for this part.

Note: If you do not know the stop date, the value of this part can be specified as 0.

aid
Application identifier. This part is optional.

Top

Printer (PRINTER)

Specifies where the report is printed.

This is a required parameter.

Note: Position the cursor in the printer parameter entry and use the prompt (F4) key to view the list of printer values that are available for the default (*DFT) instance.

The default instance is specified in the QDFTINST data area. The QDFTINST data area can exist in multiple libraries. A search for the QDFTINST data area is performed by using the library list. The first data area that is found is used. If the QDFTINST data area is not found by using the library list, the QUSRRDARS library is searched for the data area. If the data area exists in the QUSRRDARS library, it is used. If the QDFTINST data area is not found, instance QUSROND is used.

*OUTQ
The report is spooled to the output queue specified on the OUTQ parameter.

printer-name
Specify the name of the printer that is used to print the report. The printer must be defined in the instance specified on the INSTANCE parameter. Printers are added using the OnDemand Administrator client or batch administration (the ARSXML program).

Top

Output queue (OUTQ)

Specify the qualified name of the output queue that is used to receive the spooled report. This output queue must be defined as a printer within the Content Manager OnDemand instance.

Single values

*JOB
The output queue associated with this job receives the spooled report.

Qualifier 1: Output queue

name
Specify the name of the output queue to use.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the job's library list are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is where the output queue is located. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, QGPL is used.

name
Specify the name of the library where the output queue is located.

Top

Instance (INSTANCE)

Specifies the name of the Content Manager OnDemand instance used.

*DFT
The default Content Manager OnDemand instance is used.
The default instance is specified in the QDFTINST data area. The QDFTINST data area can exist in multiple libraries. A search for the QDFTINST data area is performed by using the library list. The first data area that is found is used. If the QDFTINST data area is not found by using the library list, the QUSRRDARS library is searched for the data area. If the data area exists in the QUSRRDARS library, it is used. If the QDFTINST data area is not found, instance QUSROND is used.

instance-name
Specify the name of the instance that is used.

Top

Start instance server (STRSVR)

Specifies to start the instance server if it is not currently active.

*NO
The instance server for this instance is not started.

*YES
The instance server for this instance is started.

Top

Submit to batch (SBMJOB)

Specifies if you want to print this report in this current job or in a batch job.

*YES
This command is submitted to run in a different job.

*NO
This command is run within the current job. If you are entering this command from a 5250 session, this prevents you from doing any other work from this 5250 session until this command completes.

Top

Print Report job name (JOBNAME)

Specifies the job name for the Print Report batch job.

*DFT
The job name is PRTRPT.

*APPGRP
The first 10 characters of the application group name that is specified in the APPGRP keyword are used as the job name.

job-name
The name that is specified is used as the job name.

Top

Job description (JOBD)

Specifies the name of the job description used for the submitted job.

Qualifier 1: Job description

QOND400
The QOND400 job description is used as the job description for the submitted job.

jobd-name
Specify the name of the job description used for the job.

Qualifier 2: Library

QRDARS
Library QRDARS is used as the job description's library.

*LIBL
All libraries in the job's library list are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is used to locate the job description name. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, QGPL is used.

library-name
Specify the name of the library where the job description name is located.

Top

Retrieve in load order (RTVLODORD)

*YES
The pages of the report are printed in the order in which they were loaded. Only the documents to which the user is authorized are included. WARNING: When using this option, Content Manager OnDemand cannot retrieve any documents that have index values that have been updated. Do not specify *YES unless you are certain that no indexes have been changed. If you have updated any indexes, use *NO instead.

*NO
The pages of the report are printed but load order is not guaranteed. Pages are included even if index values have been updated. Only the documents to which the user is authorized are included.

Top

Examples for PRTRPTOND

Example 1: Simple Example

PRTRPTOND APPGRP(CHECKSTMTS)
RPTID('1220-1-0-8FAA-20130420120000-20130421120000')
PRINTER(*OUTQ) OUTQ(QGPL/PRT01)

This command submits a job to batch to reprint a spooled file from the Content Manager OnDemand application group named CHECKSTMTS with a report ID (also known as load ID). The archived data is stored in the default instance since no instance name is specified. The reprinted output is directed to the PRT01 output queue.

Example 2: More Complex Example

PRTRPTOND APPGRP(CHECKSTMTS)
RPTID('1220-1-0-8FAA-20130420120000-20130421120000')
PRINTER(*OUTQ) OUTQ(QGPL/PRT01) INSTANCE(ACCTING)
SBMJOB(*NO)

This command is similar to Example 1 but runs interactively and specifies an instance name.

Top

Error messages for PRTRPTOND

*ESCAPE Messages

OND1338
Errors occurred on SBMJOB command.

OND0251
PRTRPTOND ended in error. The report was not printed.

Top