Using the STEP debug command to step through a program object

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging ILE programs > Using instruction stepping > Using instruction stepping

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging ILE programs > Using instruction stepping

Using the STEP debug command to step through a program object
The default number of statements to run, using the STEP debug command,
is one. However, you can change the step number.
To step through a program object using the STEP debug command,
type the following on the debug command line:
STEP number-of-statements
Number-of-statements is the number
of statements of the program object that you want to run in the next step
before the program object is stopped again. For example, type the following
on the debug command line:
STEP 5
The next five statements of your program object are run, then
the program object is stopped again and the Display Module Source display
is shown.
Alternatively, you can use the STEP OVER debug command to
step over a called program object in a debug session. To use the STEP OVER
debug command, type the following on the debug command line:
STEP number-of-statements OVER
If one of the statements that are run contains a CALL statement
to another program object, the Integrated Language Environment® (ILE) source debugger steps over the called program object.
You
can also use the STEP INTO debug command to step into a called program object
in a debug session. To use the STEP INTO debug command, type the following
on the debug command line:
STEP number-of-statements INTO
If one of the statements that are run contains a CALL statement
to another program object, the debugger steps into the called program object.
Each statement in the called program object is counted in the step. If the
step ends in the called program object then the called program object is shown
in the Display Module Source display. For example, type the following on the
debug command line:
STEP 5 INTO
The next five statements of the program object are run. If
the third statement is a CALL statement to another program object, then two
statements of the calling program object are run and the first three statements
of the called program object are run.

Parent topic: Using instruction stepping