Moving objects from one library to another

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Objects and libraries

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries

Moving objects from one library to another
The Move Object (MOVOBJ) command moves
objects between libraries.
Moving objects from one library to another is useful in
that you make an object temporarily unavailable and it lets you replace
an out-of-date version of an object with a new version. For example,
a new primary file can be created to be temporarily placed in a library
other than the one containing the old primary file. Because the data
in the old primary file is normally copied to the new primary file,
the old primary file cannot be deleted until the new primary file
has been created. Then, the old primary file can be deleted and the
new primary file can be moved to the library that contained the old
primary file.
You can only move an object if you have object
management authority for the object, delete and execute authority
for the library the object is being moved from, and add and read authority
to the library the object is being moved to.
You can move an
object out of the temporary library, QTEMP, but you cannot move an
object into QTEMP. Also, you cannot move an output queue unless it
is empty.
Moving journals and journal receivers is limited to
moving these object types back into the library in which they were
originally created. If the journal objects have been placed into
QRCL by a Reclaim Storage (RCLSTG) command, they
must be moved back into their original library to be made operational.
The
following is a list of objects that cannot be moved:
Authorization lists (*AUTL)
Class-of-service descriptions (*COSD)
Cluster resource group (*CRG)
Configuration lists (*CFGL)
Connection lists (*CNNL)
Controller descriptions (*CTLD)
Data dictionaries (*DTADCT)
Device descriptions (*DEVD)
Display station message queues (*MSGQ)
Documents (*DOC)
Edit descriptions (*EDTD)
Exit registration (*EXITRG)
Folders (*FLR)
Double-Byte Character Set (DBCS) font tables (*IGCTBL)
Image catalog (*IMGCLG)
Internet Packet Exchange Description (*IPXD)
Job schedules (*JOBSCD)
Libraries (*LIB)
Line descriptions (*LIND)
Mode descriptions (*MODD)
NetBIOS description (*NTBD)
Network interface descriptions (*NWID)
Network Server Configuration (*NWSCFG)
Structured Query Language (SQL) packages (*SQLPKG)
Structured Query Language (SQL) XML schema repository
(*SQLXSR)
System/36 machine descriptions (*S36)
The system history log (QHST)
The system operator message queue (QSYSOPR)
Time zone description (*TIMZON)
User-defined SQL type (*SQLUDT)
User profiles (*USRPRF)

In the following example, a file from QGPL (where it was
placed when it was created) is moved to the order entry library DISTLIB
so that it is grouped with other order entry files.
To move the object,
you must specify the to-library (TOLIB) as well as the object type
(OBJTYPE):
MOVOBJ OBJ(QGPL/ORDFILL) OBJTYPE(*FILE) TOLIB(DISTLIB)
When you move objects, you should be careful not to
move objects that other objects depend on. For example, CL procedures
may depend on the command definitions of the commands used in the
procedure to be in the same library at run time as they were at module
creation time. At compile time and at run time, the command definitions
are found either in the specified library or in a library in the library
list if *LIBL is specified. If a library name is specified, the command
definitions must be in the same library at run time as they were at
compile time. If *LIBL is specified, the command definitions can be
moved between compile time and program run time as long as they are
moved to a library in the library list. Similarly, any application
program you write can depend on certain objects being in specific
libraries.

An object referring to another object may be dependent
on the location of that object (even though *LIBL can be specified
for the location of the object). Therefore, if you move an object,
you should change any references to it in other objects. The following
lists examples of objects that refer to other objects:
Subsystem descriptions refer to job queues, classes, message queues,
and programs.
Command definitions refer to programs, message files, help panel
groups, and source files that are containing REXX procedures.
Device files refer to output queues.
Device descriptions refer to translation tables.
Job descriptions refer to job queues and output queues.
Database files refer to other database files.
Logical files refer to physical files or format selections.
User profiles refer to programs, menus, job descriptions, message
queues, and output queues.
CL programs refer to display files, data areas, and other programs.
Display files refer to database files.
Printer files refer to output queues.

Note: You should be careful when moving objects from the system
library QSYS. These objects are necessary for the system to perform
effectively and the system must be able to find the objects. This
is also true for some of the objects in the general-purpose library
QGPL, particularly for job and output queues.
The Move
Object (MOVOBJ) command moves only one object at a time.

Parent topic: Objects and libraries

Related tasks
Renaming objects

Related information
Move Object (MOVOBJ) command