Location for printer files (positions 39 through 44)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Define a printer file > Positional entries for printer files (positions 1 through 44)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Define a printer file > Positional entries for printer files (positions 1 through 44)

Location for printer files (positions 39 through 44)

These positions specify where the beginning of
the field that you are defining appears on the page. You specify the line
in positions 39 through 41, and the position in positions 42 through 44.

The following conditions apply:
When line numbers are specified, fields can appear in any order. They
will be sequenced again into line-position order when placed in the printer
file.

When line numbers are not specified, the field order within the printer
file is the same as that specified in the DDS.

When fields or space/skip keywords are conditioned, the data description
processor treats them as if they were selected when diagnosing overlapping
fields.

For a record format with several fields, when a field that
has skip/space keywords is conditioned or a field-level skip/space keyword
is conditioned, a warning message appears indicating that overlapping fields
might occur and not be diagnosed.

When the page size is exceeded because of field length, location, or associated
skip/space keywords, or because of a combination of these, a warning message
appears.

The maximum that can be entered for line number is 255. The actual maximum
for the page can be less, depending on the page-length value of the PAGESIZE
parameter on the Create Printer file (CRTPRTF) command and on the lines per
inch specified.

The maximum value that can be entered for position number is 255. The
actual maximum for the page depends on the page-width value of the PAGESIZE
parameter on the Create Printer File (CRTPRTF) command and on the characters
per inch, either specified or implicit in the font being used.

The overflow line (the last printed line on a page) depends on the values
of OVRFLW and PAGESIZE parameters on the Create Printer File (CRTPRTF), Change
Printer File (CHGPRTF), and Override with Printer File (OVRPRTF) commands.
For externally defined files, RPG cannot control page overflow.

When externally defined files are used by high-level language compilers,
the fields are sequenced in the output record area according to the DDS. Refer
to the appropriate high-level language manual for specific information. If
fields overlap, the printer overprints. See the expanded source in the compiler
printout generated by the Create Printer File command for field lengths and
output buffer positions.

These positions must be blank if the POSITION keyword is specified.