Commonly used parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > CL parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters

Commonly used parameters
Some parameters are commonly used in
many CL commands.
These commonly used parameters meet one or both
of the following criteria:
There is extensive information about how they are used.
They are used in many of the CL commands (such as the AUT parameter),
and the parameter description in the individual command description gives
only the essential information.

The expanded descriptions of the applicable command parameters have
been placed here for several reasons:
To reduce the amount of material needed in the individual commands. Normally
programmers familiar with a parameter's main function do not need the details.
To provide the supplemental information that is useful to programmers
in some instances.

The format for this information is designed for easy reference and
includes a general description of each parameter that explains its function,
states the rules for its use, and provides other helpful information. The
values that can be specified for each parameter are also listed. Each value
is followed by an explanation of what it means and (possibly) in which commands
it is used. Not all of the values appear in every command. Refer to the individual
command descriptions for the specific use of the value in that command parameter.

AUT parameter
The authority (AUT) parameter is used in create, grant, and revoke
commands. It specifies the authority granted to all users of an object.
CLS parameter
The class (CLS) parameter identifies the attributes that define
the run time environment of a job.
COUNTRY parameter
The COUNTRY parameter specifies the country or region code.
FILETYPE parameter
The FILETYPE parameter specifies whether the database file description
describes data records or source records.
FRCRATIO parameter
The force write ratio (FRCRATIO) parameter specifies the maximum
number of records that can be inserted, updated, or deleted before they are
forced into auxiliary (permanent) storage.
IGCFEAT parameter
The IGCFEAT parameter specifies which double-byte character set
(DBCS) table is used, according to device and language.
JOB parameter
The JOB parameter specifies the name of the job to which the command
is applied.
LABEL parameter
The LABEL parameter specifies the data file identifier of the data
file on tape used in input and output operations.
LICOPT parameter
The Licensed Internal Code options (LICOPT) parameter allows you
to specify individual compile-time options.
MAXACT parameter
The maximum activity level (MAXACT) parameter specifies the maximum
number of jobs that can be concurrently started and that remain active through
a job queue entry, communications entry, routing entry, or workstation
entry.
OBJ parameter
The object (OBJ) parameter specifies the names of one or more objects
affected by the command in which this parameter is used.
OBJTYPE parameter
The object type (OBJTYPE) parameter specifies the types
of IBM® i objects
that can be operated on by the command in which they are specified.
OUTPUT parameter
The OUTPUT parameter specifies whether
the output from the display command is displayed, printed, or written to an
output file.
PRTTXT parameter
The print text (PRTTXT) parameter specifies the text that appears
at the bottom of listings and on separator pages.
REPLACE parameter
The replace (REPLACE) parameter is used on create commands. It
specifies that the existing object, if one exists, is replaced by the object
of the same name, library, and object type that is being created.
JOBPTY, OUTPTY, and PTYLMT scheduling priority parameters
The scheduling priority parameters specify the priority values
used by the system to determine the order in which the jobs and spooled files
are selected for processing.
SEV parameter
The severity (SEV) parameter specifies a severity code.
SPLNBR parameter
The spooled file number (SPLNBR) parameter is used when more than
one spooled file is created by a job and the files all have the same name.
The files are numbered, starting with 1, in the order that they are opened
by the job.
TEXT parameter
The TEXT parameter specifies the user-defined
description that briefly describes the object that is being created or changed.
VOL parameter
The volume (VOL) parameter specifies the volume identifiers of
the volumes used in a tape or optical operation.
WAITFILE parameter
The WAITFILE parameter allows you to specify whether and how long
a program waits for resources.

Parent topic: CL parameters

Related concepts
CL command coding rules