Check Expired Media for BRM (CHKEXPBRM)

Check Expired Media for BRM (CHKEXPBRM)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Check Expired Media for BRM (CHKEXPBRM) command is used to check to see if there is enough expired media to satisfy the media requirements of a save operation. The command calculates the media of a specified media class available for a save operation, taking into account the location of the media based on the location specified in the media policy or a location that you specify. You can calculate the available media for single or multiple media classes, with single or multiple location combinations depending on the values that you specify in the command.

For instance, if you specified 20 in the Required volumes field, FMT2GB in the Media class field and *HOME in the Location field, you would have one media class, location combination. If you changed the Location field to *ANY, you could potentially receive messages about media class availability for each of the locations that you have set up that have the specified media class. If you had a situation where you specified *MEDPCY in the Required volumes field, *CTLGRP in the Media policy field and *ALL in the Control group field, then you would expect to have multiple media class, location combinations. The command returns messages that specify whether enough media is available for each media class, location combination.

This command works in conjunction with the value specified in the Required volumes field. The value can be a specified number of volumes or a special value for media policy. The number of available volumes calculated by the CHKEXPBRM command is compared against the value in the Required volumes field. If the expired media calculated by the CHKEXPBRM command is greater than or equal to the Required volumes field value, the save operation can continue. If the value is less, then the save operation is canceled.

The number of expired volumes can also be checked by user jobs using the CHKEXPBRM command. For example, the CHKEXPBRM command could be incorporated into a job scheduler and used to determine at various times if there is enough expired media available for a save operation.

This command is used by all BRMS save operations.

To use this command, you must have the Backup Recovery and Media Services for IBM i licensed program installed.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
EXPMED | Required volumes | 1-9999, *MEDPCY | Required, Positional 1
MEDCLS | Media class | Name | Optional
LOC | Location | Name, *ANY, *HOME | Optional
MEDPCY | Media policy | Name, *CTLGRP | Optional
CTLGRP | Control group | Single values: *ALL
Other values (up to 50 repetitions): Name, *BKUGRP, *SYSGRP, *SYSTEM | Optional
DATE | Date for save | Character value, *CURRENT | Optional

Top

Required volumes (EXPMED)

Specifies the number of expired volumes required to process a save operation. You can specify a number of volumes or you can specify that you want to base the number of required volumes on a media policy. When the command is processed the number of available expired volumes that meet the criteria are counted and compared against the value specified here.

Note: If you specify *MEDPCY, the Media policy (MEDPCY) parameter is a required parameter.

*MEDPCY
The number of expired volumes required to process a save operation will be the Required volumes field at the Storage locationfield for the media policy specified in the Media policy (MEDPCY) parameter.

number-of-volumes
Specify the number of volumes required for the save operation.

Top

Media class (MEDCLS)

Specifies the media class of the expired volumes that you want to count.

This is a required parameter when a number is entered in the Required volumes (EXPMED) parameter. If you enter a media policy, the media class is derived from the media policy.

Top

Location (LOC)

Specifies the location of the media to be included in the count of expired volumes.

*ANY
Expired volumes of the media class or classes at each location are included in the count of expired volumes available for a save operation.

*HOME
Only expired volumes at the home location are included in the count of expired volumes available for a save operation.

location
Specify the location whose expired volumes are to be included in the count of expired volumes.

Top

Media policy (MEDPCY)

Specifies the media policy that you want to use to determine the required number of expired volumes for the save operation.

This a required parameter when *MEDPCY is specified in the Required volumes (EXPMED) parameter.

*CTLGRP
Use the media policy associated with a control group to determine the number of expired volumes required for the save operation. The Control group (CTLGRP) parameter is a default with the *CTLGRP choice.

media-policy
Specify the media policy to use to determine the number of expired volumes required for the save operation.

Top

Control group (CTLGRP)

Specifies the name of the control group or all control groups whose media policy you want to use to determine the required number of expired volumes required for the save operation.

This is a default field when *CTLGRP is specified in the Media policy (MEDPCY) parameter.

Single values

*ALL
The media policy of each backup control group is used to determine the number of volumes required for each media class, location combination for the save operation.

Other values (up to 50 repetitions)

*BKUGRP
The media policy used by the default backup user data control group is used to determine the number of volumes required for the media class, location combination for the save operation.

*SYSGRP
The media policy used by the default system data control group is used to determine the number of volumes required for the media class, location combination for the save operation.

*SYSTEM
The media policy used by the default backup entire system control group is used to determine the number of volumes required for the media class, location combination for the save operation.

control-group-name
Specify the name of the backup control group, such as WEEKLY that you want to use to determine the number of volumes required for the media class, location combination for the save operation.

Top

Date for save (DATE)

Specifies the date that the control group was saved.

*CURRENT
The current date is used to determine the control group and its associated media policy.

expiration-date
Specify the date to use to determine the control group and its associated media policy.

number-of-days
Specify a number of days to calculate a future date to be associated with a control group.

Top

Examples for CHKEXPBRM

Example 1: Checking on Available Volumes

CHKEXPBRM EXPMED(50) MEDCLS(FMT2GB) LOC(*HOME)

This command checks to see if there are 50 expired volumes of media class FMT2GB available for a save operation at the home location.

Top

Error messages for CHKEXPBRM

*ESCAPE Messages

BRM1118
No active entries found in control group &1.

BRM1157
Control group &1 not found.

BRM1169
Policy &1 not found.

BRM1441
Media usage not valid, control group not processed;

BRM1917
Feature not installed.

BRM1921
Feature not licensed.

BRM1930
Request for &1 expired volumes for media class &3 was not successful.

BRM40A2
BRMS product initialization required.

CPF9800
All CPF98xx messages could be signaled. xx is from 01 to FF.

Top