Combination Edit Codes

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Editing Numeric Fields > Edit Codes > Edit Codes

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Editing Numeric Fields > Edit Codes

Combination Edit Codes

The combination edit codes (1 through 4, A through D, J through
Q) punctuate a numeric field.

The DECEDIT keyword on the control specification determines what
character is used for the decimal separator and whether leading zeros
are suppressed. The decimal position of the source field determines
whether and where a decimal point is placed. If decimal positions
are specified for the source field and the zero balance is to be suppressed,
the decimal separator is included only if
the field is not zero. If a zero balance is to be suppressed, a zero
field is output as blanks.

When a zero balance is not to be suppressed and the field is equal
to zero, either of the following is output:

A decimal separator followed by n zeros, where n is the number
of decimal places in the field

A zero in the units position of a field if no decimal places are
specified.

You can use a floating currency symbol or asterisk protection with
any of the 12 combination edit codes. The floating currency symbol
appears to the left of the first significant digit. The floating currency
symbol does not print on a zero balance when an edit code is used
that suppresses the zero balance. The currency symbol does not appear
on a zero balance when an edit code is used that suppresses the zero
balance.

The currency symbol for the program is a dollar sign ($) unless
a currency symbol is specified with the CURSYM keyword on the control
specification.

To specify a floating currency symbol in output specifications,
code the currency symbol in positions 53-55 as well as an edit code
in position 44 for the field to be edited.

For built-in function %EDITC, you specify a floating currency symbol
in the third parameter. To use the currency symbol for the program,
specify *CURSYM. To use another currency symbol, specify a character
constant of length 1.

Asterisk protection causes an asterisk to replace each zero suppressed.
A complete field of asterisks replaces the fiield on a zero balance
source field. To specify asterisk protection in output specifications,
code an asterisk constant in positions 53 through 55 of the output
specifications, along with an edit code. To specify asterisk protection
using the built-in function %EDITC, specify *ASTFILL as the third
parameter.

Asterisk
fill and the floating currency symbol cannot be
used with the simple (X, Y, Z) or with the user-defined (5 through
9) edit codes.

A currency symbol can appear before the asterisk fill (fixed currency
symbol). You can do this in output specifications with the following
coding:

Place a currency symbol constant in position 53 of the first output
specification. The end position specified in positions 47-51 should
be one space before the beginning of the edited field.

In the second output specification, place the edit field in positions
30-43, an edit code in position 44, end position of the edit field
in positions 47-51, and '*' in positions 53-55.

You can do this using the %EDITC built-in function by concatenating
the currency symbol to the %EDITC result.
C EVAL X = '$' + %EDITC(N: 'A' : *ASTFILL)

In output specifications, when an edit code is used to print an
entire array, two blanks precede each element of the array (except
the first element).
Note: You cannot edit an array using
the %EDITC built-in function.

Table 1 summarizes the functions of the combination
edit codes. The codes edit the field in the format listed on the left.
A negative field can be punctuated with no sign, CR, a minus sign
(-), or a floating minus sign as shown on the top of the figure.

Table 1. Combination Edit Codes.

 

Negative
Balance Indicator

Prints with Grouping Separator

Prints Zero Balance

No Sign

CR

-

Floating Minus

Yes

Yes

1

A

J

N

Yes

No

2

B

K

0

No

Yes

3

C

L

P

No

No

4

D

M

Q

Parent topic: Edit Codes