Managing the storage used by a data queue

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Communicating between programs and procedures > Using data queues > Using data queues

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Communicating between programs and procedures > Using data queues

Managing the storage used by a data queue
Because smaller data queues have better performance than large
ones, it is important to manage the size of the storage allocated to a data
queue.
Each entry receives a storage allocation when sent to a data
queue. The storage allocated will be the value that is specified for the maximum
entry length of the data queue that was specified on the Create Data
Queue (CRTDTAQ) command. When receiving an entry from a data queue,
the data queue removes the entry, but it does not free the auxiliary storage.
The system uses the auxiliary storage again when sending a new entry to the
data queue. The queue grows larger when not receiving entries that are sent
to the queue. Smaller queues that have not been extended past the initial
number of entries have better performance. If a data queue has grown too large,
delete the data queue by using the Delete Data Queue (DLTDTAQ) command.
On completion of the data queue deletion, re-create the queue by using the Create
Data Queue (CRTDTAQ) command.
There is another
way to manage the size of a data queue on Release V4R5M0 and beyond. This
consists of using the SIZE and AUTORCL keywords on the Create Data
Queue (CRTDTAQ) command. You can use the SIZE keyword to specify
the maximum number of entries and the initial number of entries for the data
queue. You can use the AUTORCL keyword for a queue that has been extended
to indicate if the data queue should have storage automatically reclaimed
when the queue is empty. The amount of storage that remains allocated to the
queue equals the initial number of entries specified for the queue when it
was created. If AUTORCL contains a value of *NO, which is the default, the
system does not automatically reclaim storage from unused space. To reclaim
the storage the data queue uses, you need to delete and re-create it as described
in the preceding paragraph or use the Change Data Queue (QMHQCDQ) API
to change the automatic reclaim attribute. Automatic reclaim might
be expensive depending on the size of the queue, so the initial number of
entries specified on the Create Data Queue (CRTDTAQ) command
should be set to the largest typical number of entries that are expected to
be on the data queue. If the initial number of entries is set too small, the
system will run the reclaim function more frequently.

Parent topic: Using data queues

Related concepts
Comparisons with using database files as queues

Related information
Create Data Queue (CRTDTAQ) command
Delete Data Queue (DLTDTAQ) command