Qualifying Data Structure Names

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Defining Data and Prototypes > Data Structures > Data Structures

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Defining Data and Prototypes > Data Structures

Qualifying Data Structure Names

The keyword QUALIFIED indicates that subfields of
the data structure are referenced using qualified notation. This permits
access by specifying the data structure name followed by a period
and the subfield name, for example DS1.FLD1. If the QUALIFIED
keyword is not used, the subfield name remains unqualified, for example FLD1.
If QUALIFIED is used the subfield name can be specified by one of
the following:

A "Simple Qualified Name" is a name of the form "A.B".
Simple qualified names are allowed as arguments to keywords on File
and Definition Specifications; in the Field-Name entries on Input
and Output Specifications; and in the Factor 1, Factor 2, and Result-Field
entries on fixed-form calculation specifications, i.e.dsname.subf. While spaces are permitted between elements of a fully-qualified
name, they are not permitted in simple qualified names.

A "Fully Qualified Name" is a name with qualification
and indexing to an arbitrary number of levels, for example, "A(X).B.C(Z+17)". Fully qualified names are allowed in most free-form calculation
specifications, or in any Extended-Factor-2 entry. This includes
operation codes CLEAR and DSPLY coded in free-form calculations.

In addition, arbitrary levels of indexing and qualification are
allowed. For example, a programmer could code:ds(x).subf1.s2.s3(y+1).s4 as
an operand within an expression. Please see QUALIFIED for
further information on the use of the QUALIFIED keyword.

Fully qualified names may be specified as the Result-Field operand
for operation codes CLEAR and DSPLY when coded in free-form calc specs. Expressions
are allowed as Factor 1 and Factor 2 operands for operation code DSPLY (coded
in free-form calculation specifications), however, if the operand
is more complex than a fully qualified name, the expression must be
enclosed in parentheses.

The QUALIFIED keyword is not used for a nested data structure definition.
Nested data structures are automatically qualified.
See Nested data structure subfield.

Parent topic: Data Structures