Remove Remote Journal (RMVRMTJRN)

Remove Remote Journal (RMVRMTJRN)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Remove Remote Journal (RMVRMTJRN) command disassociates a remote journal on the specified target system from the specified journal on the source system. The journal on the source system may be either a local journal or another remote journal.

The remote journal, and any associated journal receivers, are not deleted from the target system by the command processing. No processing is performed on the target system for the command. The remote journal that remains on the target system may later be added back to the remote journal definition for the journal on the source system by using the Add Remote Journal (ADDRMTJRN) command or the Add Remote Journal (QjoAddRemoteJournal) API.

It is the responsibility of the user to delete the remote journal and any associated journal receivers from the target system, if so desired.

Once a remote journal association has been removed from a journal, all of the journal receivers that are currently in the journal's receiver directory on the source system will no longer be protected from deletion even if the journal entries have not yet been replicated to the remote journal.

Restrictions:

- The command must be called from the source system for a local or remote journal.

- The remote journal on the specified target system cannot have a journal state of *ACTIVE.

- The specified relational database (RDB) directory entry must meet the following rules:

The communications protocol must be one of the remote journal function supported protocols.

The remote location name in the RDB cannot refer to the *LOCAL database.

The RDB cannot use an application requester driver program (*ARDPGM) to locate the target system.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
RDB | Relational database | Name | Required, Positional 1
SRCJRN | Source journal | Qualified object name | Required, Positional 2
Qualifier 1: Source journal | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
TGTJRN | Target journal | Single values: *SRCJRN
Other values: Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Target journal | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name

Top

Relational database (RDB)

The name of the relational database directory entry that contains the remote location name of the target system.

This is a required parameter.

relational-database-entry-name
Specify a maximum of 18 characters for the name of the relational database directory entry.

Top

Source journal (SRCJRN)

Specifies the journal on the source system from which the remote journal is being removed. The journal on the source system may be either a local journal or a remote journal.

This is a required parameter.

Qualifier 1: Source journal

source-journal-name
Specify the name of the source journal from which the target journal is being removed.

Qualifier 2: Library

The name of the source journal can be qualified by one of the following library values:

*LIBL
All libraries in the library list for the current thread are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the thread is searched. If no library is specified as the current library for the thread, the QGPL library is searched.

name
Specify the name of the library to be searched.

Top

Target journal (TGTJRN)

Specifies the remote journal on the target system.

Single values

*SRCJRN
The target journal name is exactly the same as the source journal name.

Qualifier 1: Target journal

target-journal-name
Specify the target journal that is being removed from the source journal.

Qualifier 2: Library

name
Specify the name of the library to be searched.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Removing a Remote Journal Whose Name is the Same as the Source Journal.

RMVRMTJRN SRCJRN(RMTLIB/JOURNAL) RDB(CHICAGO)
TGTJRN(*SRCJRN)

This command removes remote journal JOURNAL in library RMTLIB identified by relational database directory entry, CHICAGO, from the source journal JOURNAL in library RMTLIB.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF6981
Remote journal &1 in &2 not removed.

CPF6982
Relational database directory entry &1 not valid.

CPF6992
Remote journal &1 in &2 not removed.

CPF9801
Object &2 in library &3 not found.

CPF9802
Not authorized to object &2 in &3.

CPF9803
Cannot allocate object &2 in library &3.

CPF9810
Library &1 not found.

CPF9820
Not authorized to use library &1.

CPF9830
Cannot assign library &1.

Top