IGCANKCNV (Alphanumeric-to-DBCS Conversion) keyword

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Double-byte character set considerations for printer files > Keyword considerations for printer files that use double-byte character set

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Double-byte character set considerations for printer files > Keyword considerations for printer files that use double-byte character set

IGCANKCNV (Alphanumeric-to-DBCS Conversion) keyword

You use this field-level keyword to convert alphanumeric
characters to equivalent DBCS characters (Japanese only).

Each DBCS character is
printed twice as wide as a printed alphanumeric character.
This keyword
has no parameters.
In addition to converting alphanumeric characters,
the system adds shift-control characters at the beginning and end of converted
character strings.
For example, the string
ABCDEappears
as:
0EA B C D E0Fafter
it is converted. Note that shift-control characters were added to the string
(0E=shift-out, 0F=shift-in).
You may specify IGCANKCNV
for any named field.
Consider the following information when using the
IGCANKCNV keyword:

The converted characters are printed according to the instructions specified
for printing DBCS data, such as expanded characters. For example, if you specify
the CHRSIZ(2) keyword, the characters converted by this keyword are doubled
in width.

This conversion does not affect other attributes of a file. For example,
if you specify this DDS keyword for a field that contains floating-point data,
the system leaves the data in the floating-point format. Only the printed
appearance of the field changes. Also, any other attributes defined for the
field are still applicable, even those that are not valid for DBCS fields.

The following DDS keywords are ignored when you specify the keyword IGCANKCNV:
BLKFOLD
CPI
DFT
IGCALTTYP

The length of the printed string of characters expanded by the IGCANKCNV
function is at least two times the length of the original string plus two
positions for the shift-control characters. For example, after a string of
four Katakana characters is converted, its length is: 10 ((4 characters by 2) + 2 shift-control characters)If
you specify additional characters to be included in the string, such as with
the EDTWRD function, those characters also are expanded and the length of
the string changes accordingly. For example, suppose you specify a 4-position
field that also includes a dollar sign and a decimal point, such as:
$12.34After
the field is converted, the field length is 14. The four numbers in the field
are expanded (eight positions), the dollar sign and the decimal point are
expanded (four positions) and shift-control characters are added (two positions).

The field for which IGCANKCNV is specified should not contain any DBCS
data. The system does not support conversion of fields with both alphanumeric
and DBCS data. If a field with IGCANKCNV contains DBCS characters, the results
of the conversion cannot be predicted.

The field for which IGCANKCNV is specified cannot be a DBCS-graphic field
(a field with a data type of G).

The system replaces unprintable alphanumeric characters before it converts
them to equivalent DBCS characters as specified by the RPLUNPRT value on the
Create Printer File (CRTPRTF) command.

The output must be printed on a DBCS printer.

A warning message appears if IGCANKCNV is specified in a file created
with DEVTYPE(*IPDS).

For files created with DEVTYPE(*AFPDS), characters in the field specified
with IGCANKCNV are printed using the font identified by the IGCCDEFNT keyword.

IGCANKCNV cannot be specified on a record or on a field in a record if
that record also contains COLOR, BARCODE, or LPI.

Option indicators are not allowed with IGCANKCNV.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the IGCANKCNV keyword on the DDS coding form.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A*
00020A*
00030A R RECORD CHRSIZ(2) SKIPB(3)
00040A FLDA 400 20SPACEA(2)
00050A FLDB 80A 20SPACEA(2) CHRISIZ(1)
00060A FLDC 20A 20SPACEA(2) IGCANKCNV
AThe alphanumeric characters printed from FLDC are converted
to equivalent DBCS characters. These converted characters are then expanded
because the record was specified with the DDS keyword CHRSIZ(2).