COLHDG (Column Heading) keyword for physical and logical files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Keyword entries for physical and logical files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Keyword entries for physical and logical files (positions 45 through 80)

COLHDG (Column Heading) keyword for physical and logical files

You can use this field-level keyword to specify
column headings used as a label for this field by text management, the query
utility, the data file utility (DFU), and the screen design aid (SDA).

The format of the keyword is: COLHDG('line-1' ['line-2' ['line-3']])
A
maximum of three lines of 20 characters each is allowed. Each line of the
column heading must be enclosed in single quotation marks ('). Use double
single quotation marks (' ') to specify single quotation marks within
column headings. Use one or more blanks to separate the first column heading
line from the second and the second from the third.
For a physical file,
if you do not specify COLHDG and it is not retrieved from a referenced field,
the field name is used. If you do not specify COLHDG for a logical file, the
column heading from the physical file is used, except when the field is a
concatenation of fields; in this case, the default is the field name.
If
you specify COLHDG but do not specify TEXT, 50 positions of column heading
information are used as text. For example, COLHDG('Order' 'Date') is equivalent
to TEXT('Order Date').

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the COLHDG keyword for a physical file.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00150A ORDDAT 5 0 COLHDG('Order' 'Date')
00160A NAME 20 COLHDG('Customer''s Name')
00170A CITY 20 COLHDG('Customer' 'City' 'Field')
ADecimal positions or data
type must be specified for ORDDAT because Order Date is a numeric field (denoted
by NNNNN as follows).
The following display illustrates how the column
headings can appear when running text management, query, DFU, or SDA. Customer
Order City
Date Customer's Name Field
NNNNN XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX