Save System (SAVSYS)

Save System (SAVSYS)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Save System (SAVSYS) command saves a copy of the Licensed Internal Code and the QSYS library in a format compatible with the installation of the operating system. It does not save objects from any other library. In addition, it saves security and configuration objects that can also be saved using the Save Security Data (SAVSECDTA) and Save Configuration (SAVCFG) commands.

To save the system data on offline storage, the system writes a copy of the objects onto the media. The libraries and objects are not affected on the system. This command cannot be used to free any space occupied by these objects. The history information for the data area QSAVUSRPRF in QSYS is updated with the date, time, and place where user profiles are saved. The history information for the data area QSAVSYS in QSYS is updated with the date, time, and place where the system is saved. The history information for the data area QSAVCFG in QSYS is updated with the date, time, and place where configuration objects are saved. The history information is not updated for the individual objects. To display the information in these data areas, run the Display Object Description (DSPOBJD) command, and specify DETAIL(*FULL). Save the information from the display of QSAVUSRPRF for the location where the user profiles are saved.

When using this command, it is important to use the device on the system that is defined as the initial program load (IPL) device. The IPL device was defined by the service representative when the system was installed. If an IPL device is not used when using this command, then the system cannot be restored using the SAVSYS media (if densities or media types are incompatible).

Restrictions:

- You must have save system (*SAVSYS) special authority to run this command

- All subsystems must be inactive before the SAVSYS command can be specified. The End System (ENDSYS) or End Subsystem (ENDSBS) command can be used to make the subsystems inactive. You must have job control (*JOBCTL) special authority to use the ENDSYS or the ENDSBS command.

- Tapes created using this command that will be used for installation should be initialized with a density that is supported by the current IPL tape unit. If this is not done, the current IPL tape will have to be changed to a tape device that supports the density of the created SAVSYS tapes before installation begins.

- Tapes created using the SAVSYS command should not be used for automatic installation.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
DEV | Device | Values (up to 4 repetitions): Name | Required, Positional 1
VOL | Volume identifier | Single values: *MOUNTED
Other values (up to 75 repetitions): Character value | Optional, Positional 2
EXPDATE | File expiration date | Date, *PERM | Optional
ENDOPT | End of media option | *REWIND, *LEAVE, *UNLOAD | Optional
USEOPTBLK | Use optimum block | *YES, *NO | Optional
OMIT | Omit | Single values: *NONE
Other values (up to 2 repetitions): *CFG, *SECDTA | Optional
OUTPUT | Output | *NONE, *PRINT, *OUTFILE | Optional
OUTFILE | File to receive output | Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: File to receive output | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
OUTMBR | Output member options | Element list | Optional
Element 1: Member to receive output | Name, *FIRST
Element 2: Replace or add records | *REPLACE, *ADD
ASPDEV | ASP device | Name, *ALLAVL, *, *SYSBAS, *CURASPGRP | Optional
CLEAR | Clear | *NONE, *ALL, *AFTER, *REPLACE | Optional
DTACPR | Data compression | *DEV, *NO, *YES, *LOW, *MEDIUM, *HIGH, *ZLIB | Optional
COMPACT | Data compaction | *DEV, *NO | Optional

Top

Device (DEV)

Specifies the name of the device used for the save operation. The device name must already be known on the system by a device description.

This is a required parameter.

optical-device-name
Specify the name of the optical device used for the save operation.

tape-media-library-device-name
Specify the name of the tape media library device used for the save operation.

tape-device-name
Specify the names of one or more tape devices used for the save operation. If a virtual tape device is used, it must be the only device specified. If multiple tape devices are used, they must have compatible media formats and their names must be specified in the order in which they are used. Using more than one tape device permits one tape volume to be rewound and unloaded while another tape device processes the next tape volume.

Top

Volume identifier (VOL)

Specifies the volume identifiers of the volumes, or the cartridge identifiers of tapes in a tape media library device, on which the data is saved. The volumes must be placed in the device in the same order as specified for this parameter.

Single values

*MOUNTED
The data is saved on the volumes placed in the device. For a media library device, the volume to be used is the next cartridge in the category mounted by the Set Tape Category (SETTAPCGY) command.

Note: This value cannot be specified when using an optical media library device.

Other values (up to 75 repetitions)

character-value
Specify the identifiers of one or more volumes in the order in which they are placed in a device and used to save the data.

Top

File expiration date (EXPDATE)

Specifies the expiration date of the file created by the save operation. If a date is specified, the file is protected and cannot be overwritten until the specified expiration date.

*PERM
The files are protected permanently.

date
Specify the date when protection for the files ends.

Top

End of media option (ENDOPT)

Specifies the operation that is automatically done on the tape or optical volume after the save operation ends. If more than one volume is used, this parameter applies only to the last volume used; all other volumes are unloaded when the end of the volume is reached.

Note: This parameter is valid only if a tape or optical device name is specified for the DEV parameter. For optical devices, *UNLOAD is the only special value supported, *REWIND and *LEAVE will be ignored.

*REWIND
The tape is automatically rewound, but not unloaded, after the operation has ended.

*LEAVE
The tape does not rewind or unload after the operation ends. It remains at the current position on the tape drive.

*UNLOAD
The tape is automatically rewound and unloaded after the operation ends. Some optical devices will eject the volume after the operation ends.

Top

Use optimum block (USEOPTBLK)

Specifies whether or not the optimum block size is used for the save operation.

Note: Specifying USEOPTBLK(*YES) may result in a tape that can be duplicated only to a device that supports the same block size.

*YES
The optimum block size supported by the device is used for Save commands. If the block size that is used is larger than a block size that is supported by all device types, then:

- Performance may improve.

- The tape file that is created is only compatible with a device that supports the block size used. Commands such as Duplicate Tape (DUPTAP) do not duplicate files unless the files are being duplicated to a device which supports the same block size that was used.

- The value for the DTACPR parameter is ignored.

*NO
The optimum block size supported by the device is not used. Save commands use the default block size supported by all device types. The tape volume can be duplicated to any media format using the Duplicate Tape (DUPTAP) command.

Note: Not all files will be saved with optimum block size.

Top

Omit (OMIT)

Specifies what data to omit from the save system operation.

Single values

*NONE
All of the security data and configuration data are included in the save system operation.

Other values (up to 2 repetitions)

*CFG
All of the configuration data is omitted from the save system operation. You can use the SAVCFG (Save Configuration) command to save just the configuration object information.

*SECDTA
All of the security data is omitted from the save system operation. You can use the SAVSECDTA (Save Security Data) command to save just the system security data.

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether a list with information about the saved objects is created. The information can be printed with the job's spooled output or directed to a database file.

*NONE
No output listing is created.

*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output.

*OUTFILE
The output is directed to the database file specified for the File to receive output (OUTFILE) parameter.

Note: You must specify a database file name for the File to receive output (OUTFILE) parameter when OUTPUT(*OUTFILE) is specified.

Top

File to receive output (OUTFILE)

Specifies the database file to which the output of the command is directed. If the file does not exist, this command creates a database file in the specified library. If the file is created, the public authority for the file is the same as the create authority specified for the library in which the file is created. Use the Display Library Description (DSPLIBD) command to show the library's create authority.

Qualifier 1: File to receive output

name
Specify the name of the database file to which the command output is directed.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
The library list is used to locate the file. If the file is not found, one is created in the current library. If no current library exists, the file will be created in the QGPL library.

*CURLIB
The current library for the thread is used to locate the file. If no library is specified as the current library for the thread, the QGPL library is used.

name
Specify the name of the library to be searched.

Note: If a new file is created, the system uses the IBM-supplied file QASAVOBJ with format name QSRSAV as a model.

Top

Output member options (OUTMBR)

Specifies the name of the database file member to which the output is directed when *OUTFILE is specified for the Output (OUTPUT) parameter.

Element 1: Member to receive output

*FIRST
The first member in the file receives the output. If OUTMBR(*FIRST) is specified and the member does not exist, the system creates a member with the name of the file specified for the File to receive output (OUTFILE) parameter.

name
Specify the name of the file member that receives the output. If OUTMBR(member-name) is specified and the member does not exist, the system creates it.
If the member exists, you can add records to the end of the existing member or clear the existing member and add the records.

Element 2: Replace or add records

*REPLACE
The existing records in the specified database file member are replaced by the new records.

*ADD
The new records are added to the existing information in the specified database file member.

Top

ASP device (ASPDEV)

Specifies the auxiliary storage pool (ASP) device from which private authorities are to be saved.

*ALLAVL
The private authorities from the system ASP (ASP number 1), all basic user ASPs (ASP numbers 2-32), and all available independent ASPs are saved.

*
The private authorities from the system ASP, all basic user ASPs, and, if the current thread has an ASP group, all independent ASPs in the ASP group are saved.

*SYSBAS
The private authorities from the system ASP and all basic user ASPs are saved.

*CURASPGRP
If the current thread has an ASP group, the private authorities from all independent ASPs in the ASP group are saved.

name
Specify the ASP device name from which private authorities are to be saved.

Top

Clear (CLEAR)

Specifies whether active data on the media is automatically cleared or replaced. Active data is any file on the media that has not expired. Clearing active data removes all files from the volume. Replacing active data on optical media initializes the first volume, and replaces only the optical files created by this operation on any volumes after the first volume.

Notes:

- Clearing a tape does not initialize it. You should initialize tapes to a standard label format before the save command is issued by using the Initialize Tape (INZTAP) command and specifying a value for the NEWVOL parameter.

- Clearing an optical volume does initialize it.

- If a volume that is not initialized is encountered during the save operation, an inquiry message is sent and an operator can initialize the volume.

*NONE
None of the media is automatically cleared. If the save operation encounters active data on the first volume, an inquiry message is sent, allowing the operator to either end the save operation or clear the media. If the save operation encounters active data after the first volume, an inquiry message is sent, allowing the operator to either end the save operation, clear the tape, or replace the optical file.

*ALL
All of the media is automatically cleared.

*AFTER
All media after the first volume is automatically cleared. If the save operation encounters active data on the first tape, an inquiry message is sent, allowing the operator to either end the save operation or clear the media. If the save operation encounters the specified optical file on the first volume, an inquiry message is sent, allowing the operator to either end the save operation or replace the file.

*REPLACE
Active data on the media is automatically replaced. The first optical volume is initialized. Other optical volumes are not initialized. Tapes are automatically cleared in the same way as the *ALL value.

Top

Data compression (DTACPR)

Specifies whether data compression is used. If the save is running while other jobs on the system are active and software compression is used, the overall system performance may be affected.

Note: If *DEV is specified for both this parameter and the Data compaction (COMPACT) parameter, only device data compaction is performed if device data compaction is supported on the device. Otherwise, data compression is performed.

If *YES is specified for this parameter and *DEV is specified for the COMPACT parameter, both device data compaction and device data compression are performed if supported on the device.

*DEV
If the save is to tape and the target device supports compression, hardware compression is performed. Otherwise, no data compression is performed.

*NO
No data compression is performed.

*YES
If the save is to tape and the target device supports compression, hardware compression is performed. If compression is not supported, or if the save data is written to optical media or to a save file, software compression is performed. Low software compression is used for all devices except optical DVD, which uses medium software compression.

*LOW
Software data compression is performed with the SNA algorithm. Low compression is usually faster and the compressed data is usually larger than if medium, high, or zlib compression is used.

*MEDIUM
Software data compression is performed with the TERSE algorithm. Medium compression is usually slower than low compression but faster than high compression. The compressed data is usually smaller than if low compression is used and larger than if high or zlib compression is used.

*HIGH
Software data compression is performed with the LZ1 algorithm. High compression is usually the slowest and the compressed data is usually smaller than if low or medium compression is used and larger than if zlib compression is used.

*ZLIB
Software data compression is performed with the ZLIB deflate algorithm. Zlib compression takes advantage of hardware acceleration if available and is usually faster than medium or high compression. If hardware acceleration is unavailable then zlib compression is usually slower than medium compression but faster than high compression. The compressed data is usually always the smallest.

Top

Data compaction (COMPACT)

Specifies whether device data compaction is performed.

*DEV
Device data compaction is performed if the data is saved to tape and all tape devices specified for the Device (DEV) parameter support the compaction feature.

Note: If *DEV is specified for both the Data compression (DTACPR) parameter and this parameter, only device data compaction is performed if device data compaction is supported on the device. Otherwise, data compression is performed if supported on the device.

If *YES is specified for the DTACPR parameter and *DEV is specified for this parameter, both device data compaction and device data compression are performed if supported on the device.

*NO
Device data compaction is not performed.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Tapes Cleared Automatically

SAVSYS DEV(TAP01) CLEAR(*ALL)

This command saves licensed internal code, system objects, all user profiles (including private authority for objects), and all line, controller, and device descriptions. They are saved on the tape put on the TAP01 tape drive. Each uncleared tape is automatically cleared when it is encountered, and the save operation continues without operator intervention.

Example 2: Operating Receives Message of Exceeded Storage Capacity

SAVSYS DEV(TAP01) VOL(ABCDE)

The system data is saved on the TAP01 tape drive, starting on the tape volume labeled ABCDE. If the save operation exceeds the storage capacity of one tape, a message requesting that another volume be put on the TAP01 tape drive is shown to the operator.

Example 3: Saving Data on Two Tape Drives in Alternating Order

SAVSYS DEV(TAP01 TAP02)

The system data is saved on tape drives TAP01 and TAP02 in alternating order. If the save operation exceeds the storage capacity of two tapes, a message requesting that another volume be put on TAP01 is shown to the operator. The tapes are rewound at the completion of the save system operation.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF2206
User needs authority to do requested function on object.

CPF222E
&1 special authority is required.

CPF3703
&2 &1 in &3 not saved.

CPF3709
Tape devices do not support same densities.

CPF372B
Not all objects were saved.

CPF3727
Duplicate device &1 specified on device name list.

CPF3728
Device &1 specified with other devices.

CPF3733
&2 &1 in &3 previously damaged.

CPF3735
Storage limit exceeded for user profile &1.

CPF3738
Device &1 used for save or restore is damaged.

CPF3767
Device &1 not found.

CPF3768
Device &1 not valid for command.

CPF3772
SAVSYS completed. One or more objects not saved.

CPF3785
Not all subsystems ended.

CPF3793
Machine or ASP storage limit reached.

CPF3794
Save or restore operation ended unsuccessfully.

CPF3797
Objects from library &3 not saved. Save limit exceeded.

CPF3798
Installation &2 &1 in &3 not found.

CPF384E
USEOPTBLK(*YES) not valid for CD-ROM premastering.

CPF3873
Licensed program &1 option &2 release &4 not saved.

CPF388B
Optical file path name not valid.

CPF3894
Cancel reply received for message &1.

CPF38A4
ASP device &1 not correct.

CPF9814
Device &1 not found.

CPF9833
*CURASPGRP or *ASPGRPPRI specified and thread has no ASP group.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

CPF9846
Error while processing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9847
Error occurred while closing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9850
Override of printer file &1 not allowed.

CPF9851
Overflow value for file &1 in &2 too small.

CPF9860
Error occurred during output file processing.

CPFB8ED
Device description &1 not correct for operation.

Top