Display Credentials Cache File (DSPKRBCCF)

Display Credentials Cache File (DSPKRBCCF)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Display Credentials Cache File (DSPKRBCCF) command is used to display the entries in the local credentials cache file. After the user has modified the credentials cache by running the Add Kerberos Ticket (ADDKRBTKT), Add Kerberos Keytab Entry (ADDKRBKTE), or Remove Kerberos Keytab Entry (RMVKRBKTE) commands, the only way to verify the changes is to view the contents of the credentials cache file using this command.

Restrictions:

- You must have execute (*X) authority to each directory in the path for the credentials cache stream file and read (*R) to the credentials cache stream file.
The Network Authentication Service Commands and APIs support job environments for most EBCDIC CCSIDs. CCSID 290 and 5026 are not supported because of the variance of lower-case letters a to z.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
CCF | Credentials cache file | Path name, *DFT | Optional, Positional 1
OUTPUT | Output | *, *PRINT | Optional

Top

Credentials cache file (CCF)

Specifies the Kerberos credentials cache file to be displayed.

*DFT
The default credentials cache file for the current user is used. If the KRB5CCNAME environment variable is set, this is the name of the default cache. Otherwise, the name is obtained from the file specified by the _EUV_SEC_KRB5CCNAME_FILE environment variable. If this environment variable is not set, the name is obtained from the krb5ccname in the HOME directory. If this file does not exist or if there is no default credentials cache name set in the file, a new credentials cache file is created.

*EXPIRED
All credentials cache files that contain expired tickets are displayed.

path-name
Specify the path name of the stream file which is the credentials cache file to display.

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether the output from the command is displayed at the requesting work station or printed with the job's spooled output.

*
The output is displayed for interactive jobs or printed with the job's spooled output for non-interactive jobs.

*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Displaying Credentials Cache File

DSPKRBCCF CCF(*DFT) OUTPUT(*)

This command displays the content in the default credentials cache file.

Example 2: Printing Credentials Cache File

DSPKRBCCF CCF('myccf.ccf') OUTPUT(*)

This command prints the content in the credentials cache file in stream file myccf.ccf located in the current directory.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPFC609
The principal from credential cache file &1 cannot be retrieved.

CPFC610
No default credentials cache found.

CPFC611
Credentials cache file operation failed.

CPFC614
The ticket from credentials cache &1 cannot be retrieved.

CPFC619
The ticket cannot be decoded.

CPFC61A
Requested operation failed.

Top