LIKE predicate

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Predicates > Predicates

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Predicates

LIKE predicate
The LIKE predicate searches for strings that have a certain
pattern. The pattern is specified by a string in which the underscore
and percent sign have special meanings. Trailing blanks in a pattern
are a part of the pattern.
match-expressionNOTLIKEpattern-expressionESCAPEescape-expression
If the value of any of the arguments is null, the result
of the LIKE predicate is unknown.
The match-expression, pattern-expression,
and escape-expression must identify strings or numbers. A numeric
argument is cast to a character string before evaluating the predicate.
For more information about converting numeric to a character string,
see VARCHAR. The values for match-expression,
pattern-expression, and escape-expression must either
all be binary strings or none can be binary strings. The three arguments
can include a mixture of character strings and graphic strings.
None of the expressions can yield a distinct type. However,
it can be a function that casts a distinct type to its source type.
If the operands of the predicate are SBCS data, mixed
data, or Unicode data, and if the collating sequence in effect at
the time the statement is executed is not *HEX, then the comparison
of the operands is performed using weighted values for the operands.
The weighted values are based on the collating sequence. An ICU collating
sequence is not allowed with a LIKE predicate.
With character strings, the terms character, percent
sign, and underscore in the following discussion refer
to single-byte characters. With graphic strings, the terms refer to
double-byte or Unicode characters. With binary strings, the terms
refer to the code points of those single-byte characters.
match-expression
An expression that specifies the string that is to be examined
to see if it conforms to a certain pattern of characters.
LIKE pattern-expression
An expression that specifies the string that is to be matched. Simple
description: A simple description of the LIKE pattern is as follows:
The underscore sign (_) represents any single character.
The percent sign (%) represents a string of zero or more characters.
Any other character represents itself.

If the pattern-expression needs to include either the
underscore or the percent character, the escape-expression is
used to specify a character to precede either the underscore or percent
character in the pattern.
Rigorous description: Let x denote
a value of match-expression and y denote
the value of pattern-expression.
The
string y is interpreted as a sequence of
the minimum number of substring specifiers so each character of y is
part of exactly one substring specifier. A substring specifier is
an underscore, a percent sign, or any nonempty sequence of characters
other than an underscore or a percent sign.
The result of the
predicate is unknown if x or y is
the null value. Otherwise, the result is either true or false. The
result is true if x and y are
both empty strings or if there exists a partitioning of x into
substrings such that:
A substring of x is a sequence of zero
or more contiguous characters and each character of x is
part of exactly one substring.
If the nth substring specifier is an
underscore, the nth substring of x is
any single character.
If the nth substring specifier is a
percent sign, the nth substring of x is
any sequence of zero or more characters.
If the nth substring specifier is neither
an underscore nor a percent sign, the nth
substring of x is equal to that substring
specifier and has the same length as that substring specifier.
The number of substrings of x is the
same as the number of substring specifiers.

It follows that if y is an empty
string and x is not an empty string, the
result is false. Similarly, it follows that if x is
an empty string and y is not
an empty string consisting of other than percent signs, the result
is false.
The predicate x NOT
LIKE y is equivalent to the search
condition NOT(x LIKE y).
If
necessary, the CCSID of the match-expression, pattern-expression,
and escape-expression are converted to the compatible CCSID
between the match-expression and pattern-expression.
Mixed
data: If the column is mixed data, the pattern can include both
SBCS and DBCS characters. The special characters in the pattern are
interpreted as follows:
An SBCS underscore refers to one SBCS character.
A DBCS underscore refers to one DBCS character.
A percent sign (either SBCS or DBCS) refers to any number of characters
of any type, either SBCS or DBCS.
Redundant shifts in match-expression and pattern-expression are
ignored.1

Unicode
data: For Unicode, the special characters in the pattern are interpreted
as follows:
An SBCS or DBCS underscore refers to one character (a character
can be one or more bytes)
A percent sign (either SBCS or DBCS) refers to a string of zero
or more characters (a character can be one or more bytes).

When the LIKE predicate is used with Unicode data, the Unicode
percent sign and underscore use the code points indicated in the following
table:
Character
UTF-8
UTF-16 or UCS-2

Half-width %
X'25'
X'0025'

Full-width %
X'EFBC85'
X'FF05'

Half-width _
X'5F'
X'005F'

Full-width _
X'EFBCBF'
X'FF3F'

The full-width or half-width % matches zero or more characters.
The full-width or half width _ character matches exactly one character.
(For EBCDIC data, a full-width _ character matches one DBCS character.)
Binary
data: If the column is binary data, the pattern contains bytes.
The special bytes in the pattern are interpreted as follows: The code point for an SBCS underscore (X'6D') refers to one byte.
The code point for an SBCS percent (X'6C') refers to any number
of bytes.

Parameter marker:
When the
pattern specified in a LIKE predicate is a parameter marker, and a
fixed-length character variable is used to replace the parameter marker;
specify a value for the variable that is the correct length. If a
correct length is not specified, the select will not return the intended
results.
For example, if the variable is defined as CHAR(10),
and the value WYSE% is assigned to that variable, the variable is
padded with blanks on assignment. The pattern used is
'WYSE% '
This
pattern requests the database manager to search for all values that
start with WYSE and end with five blank spaces. If you intended to
search for only the values that start with 'WYSE' you should assign
the value 'WYSE%%%%%%' to the variable.

ESCAPE escape-expression
An expression
that specifies a character to be used to modify the special meaning
of the underscore (_) and percent (%) characters in the pattern-expression.
This allows the LIKE predicate to be used to match values that contain
the actual percent and underscore characters. The following rules
apply the use of the ESCAPE clause and the escape-expression:
The escape-expression must be a string of length 1.2
The pattern-expression must not contain the escape character
except when followed by the escape character, percent, or underscore. For example, if '+' is the escape character, any occurrences
of '+' other than '++', '+_', or '+%' in the pattern-expression is
an error.

The escape-expression can be a parameter marker.

The following example shows the effect of successive occurrences
of the escape character, which in this case is the plus sign (+).
When the pattern string
is...
The actual pattern is...

+%
A percent sign

++%
A plus sign followed by
zero or more arbitrary characters

+++%
A plus sign followed by
a percent sign

ExamplesExample 1
Search for
the string ‘SYSTEMS' appearing anywhere within the PROJNAME column
in the PROJECT table.
SELECT PROJNAME
FROM PROJECT
WHERE PROJECT.PROJNAME LIKE '%SYSTEMS%'

Example 2
Search for a string with a first
character of ‘J' that is exactly two characters long in the FIRSTNME
column of the EMPLOYEE table.
SELECT FIRSTNME
FROM EMPLOYEE
WHERE EMPLOYEE.FIRSTNME LIKE 'J_'

Example 3
In this example:
SELECT *
FROM TABLEY
WHERE C1 LIKE 'AAAA+%BBB%' ESCAPE '+'

'+' is the escape character and indicates
that the search is for a string that starts with 'AAAA%BBB'. The '+%'
is interpreted as a single occurrence of '%' in the pattern.
Example 4
In the following table of EBCDIC
examples, assume COL1 is mixed data. The table shows the results when
the predicates in the first column are evaluated using the COL1 values
from the second column:

Example 5
Assume that a distinct type named
ZIP_TYPE with a source data type of CHAR(5) exists and an ADDRZIP
column with data type ZIP_TYPE exists in some table TABLEY. The following
statement selects the row if the zip code (ADDRZIP) begins with '9555'.
SELECT *
FROM TABLEY
WHERE CHAR(ADDRZIP) LIKE '9555%'

Example 6
The RESUME column in sample table
EMP_RESUME is defined as a CLOB. If the variable LASTNAME has a value
of 'JONES', the following statement selects the RESUME column when
the string JONES appears anywhere in the column.
SELECT RESUME
FROM EMP_RESUME
WHERE RESUME LIKE '%'||LASTNAME||'%'

Parent topic: Predicates

1 Redundant shifts are normally ignored. To guarantee that
they are ignored, however, specify the IGNORE_LIKE_REDUNDANT_SHIFTS
query attribute. See Database Performance and Query Optimization for
information about setting query attributes.2 If
it is NUL-terminated, a C character string variable of length 2 can
be specified.