Start Pass-Through (STRPASTHR)

Start Pass-Through (STRPASTHR)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: Interactive environments (*INTERACT *IPGM *IREXX *EXEC)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Start Pass-Through (STRPASTHR) command allows you to pass through to a target system where you can sign on as if you were attached locally. For information on configuring or operating the pass-through function, refer to the Remote Work Station Support book.

Restriction:

- This command cannot be entered at a work station with a display that has 12 lines by 80 characters.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
RMTLOCNAME | Remote location | Communications name, *CNNDEV | Required, Positional 1
CNNDEV | APPC device | Single values: *LOC
Other values (up to 16 repetitions): Name | Optional
VRTCTL | Virtual controller | Name, *NONE | Optional, Positional 2
VRTDEV | Virtual display device | Single values: *NONE
Other values (up to 32 repetitions): Name | Optional, Positional 3
MODE | Mode | Communications name, *NETATR | Optional
LCLLOCNAME | Local location | Communications name, *LOC, *NETATR | Optional
RMTNETID | Remote network identifier | Communications name, *LOC, *NETATR, *NONE | Optional
SRQ10PGM | System request program | Single values: *SRQMNU
Other values: Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: System request program | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
RMTUSER | User profile | Character value, *NONE, *CURRENT | Optional
RMTPWD | User password | Character value, *NONE | Optional
RMTINLPGM | Initial program to call | Name, *RMTUSRPRF, *NONE | Optional
RMTINLMNU | Initial menu | Name, *RMTUSRPRF, *SIGNOFF | Optional
RMTCURLIB | Current library | Name, *RMTUSRPRF | Optional
PASTHRSCN | Display option | Character value, *YES, *NO | Optional

Top

Remote location (RMTLOCNAME)

Specifies one of the following:

- If (*LOC) is specified for the APPC device prompt (CNNDEV parameter), the RMTLOCNAME parameter specifies the name of the remote location that is the target of the pass-through session.

- If any devices are specified on the CNNDEV parameter, the RMTLOCNAME parameter specifies the first system to do intermediate pass-through routing.

remote-location-name
Specify the remote location name that is the target of the pass-through session or the first system that does intermediate pass-through routing. APPN determines the route to this location.

*CNNDEV
Use the APPC devices specified with the APPC device prompt (CNNDEV parameter).

Top

APPC device (CNNDEV)

Specifies the names of the device descriptions that connect the first system to do pass-through routing with the target system. If *CNNDEV is specified on the Remote location prompt (RMTLOCNAME parameter), the first device specified on this parameter is on the source system. If the name of a remote location is specified on the Remote location prompt (RMTLOCNAME parameter), the first device specified on this parameter is on the system in that remote location. If another system connects the source system to the target system and pass-through must establish the intermediate sessions, then you must specify a list of APPC device descriptions. The APPC device names must be listed in the order that the systems are passed through to get to the target system.

You can enter multiple values for this parameter.

*LOC
The Remote location prompt (RMTLOCNAME parameter) specifies the name of the remote location that is the target of the pass-through session.

device-name(s)
Specify the names of the device descriptions that complete the route from the source system to the target system. Up to 16 names can be specified.

Top

Virtual controller (VRTCTL)

Specifies the name of the virtual controller on the remote system that is used to do pass-through jobs. If you specify a virtual controller, one of the virtual display devices attached to it is selected for the pass-through job. A device on the target system is selected based on a comparison of device type and model.

This entry is mutually exclusive with an entry on the Virtual display device prompt (VRTDEV parameter); *NONE must be specified when one or more devices are specified on the Virtual display device prompt (VRTDEV parameter).

*NONE
No controller is specified. If *NONE is also specified on the Virtual display device prompt (VRTDEV parameter), you are requesting automatic configuration.

virtual-controller-name
Specify the name of the virtual controller description on the target system.

Top

Virtual display device (VRTDEV)

Specifies one or more devices on the target system that are connected to a virtual controller used for the pass-through session. A device on the target system from the list is selected based on a comparison of device type and model.

This entry is mutually exclusive with an entry on the Virtual controller prompt (VRTCTL parameter); *NONE must be specified when a controller name is specified on the Virtual controller prompt (VRTCTL parameter).

You can enter multiple values for this parameter.

*NONE
No device names are specified. If *NONE is also specified on the Virtual controller prompt (VRTCTL parameter), you are requesting automatic configuration.

virtual-display-device-name
Specify the names of the virtual display device descriptions on the target system. Up to 32 names can be specified.

Top

Mode (MODE)

Specifies the mode name used.

*NETATR
The mode in the network attributes is used.

mode-name
Specify a mode name.

Top

Local location (LCLLOCNAME)

Specifies the local location name.

*LOC
The local location name is chosen by the system.

*NETATR
The LCLLOCNAME value specified in the system network attributes is used.

APPN-location-name
Specify the local location name that is associated with the source system. If the local location name is not valid, an escape message is sent.

Top

Remote network identifier (RMTNETID)

Specifies the network ID of the network where the remote location resides.

*LOC
Any remote network ID for the remote location may be used.

*NETATR
The LCLNETID value specified in the system network attributes is used.

*NONE
The remote location does not support network identifiers.

APPN-network-identifier
Specify a remote network ID.

Top

System request program (SRQ10PGM)

Specifies that the system request menu is displayed, or specifies the name of the program that starts on the source system when system request option 10 is selected.

The user program can display a menu that allows you to select the system you want to access, and then transfer to a group job that sends the Start Pass-Through (STRPASTHR) command to the desired system. For more information, see the Remote Work Station Support book.

*SRQMNU
The system request menu on the source system is displayed.

program-name
Specify the program and library names of the program started when system request option 10 is selected.
The possible library values are:

*LIBL
The library list is used to locate the program.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is used to locate the program. If no current library entry exists in the library list, QGPL is used.

library-name
Specify the library where the program is located.

Top

User profile (RMTUSER)

Specifies the user profile for automatic sign-on to the target system. If a profile is specified for this parameter and password security is active on the target system, (*NONE) is not valid for the User password prompt (RMTPWD parameter).

*NONE
No user profile name is sent, and no automatic sign-on occurs.

*CURRENT
The user profile of the job using this command is sent. If the target system allows it, and the user profile exists on the target system, and the password specified in the RMTPWD parameter is valid for the profile, the user is automatically signed on. Otherwise, the user is presented with a sign-on display on the target system or a failure message on the source system, depending on the configuration of the target system.

profile-name
Specify a user profile name to use that exists on the target system. If the target system allows it, and if the user profile exists on the target system, the user is automatically signed on. Otherwise, the user is presented with a sign-on display on the target system or a failure message on the source system, depending on the configuration of the target system. If a profile is specified and password security is active on the target system, a password must be specified, even if the profile specified is the same as the current profile.

Top

User password (RMTPWD)

Specifies the password being sent to the target system.

*NONE
The system does not send a password. If a profile is specified on the User profile prompt (RMTUSER parameter), and password security is active on the target system, this value is not allowed.

password
Specify a password being sent to the target system to verify the sign-on of the user specified in the RMTUSER parameter. This password is encrypted before being sent across the communication line.

Top

Initial program to call (RMTINLPGM)

Specifies the program that is called immediately after you sign on.

*RMTUSRPRF
The initial program specified in the remote user profile is called immediately after automatic sign-on.

*NONE
No program is run before the initial menu is shown, even if an initial program is specified in the remote user profile.

program
Specify the name of a program that is called immediately after automatic sign-on.

Top

Initial menu (RMTINLMNU)

Specifies the first menu shown when you are automatically signed on to the target system after the initial program is run.

*RMTUSRPRF
The initial menu specified in the remote user profile is shown immediately after the initial program is run.

*SIGNOFF
A menu is not shown after the initial program is run, even if an initial menu is specified in the remote user profile. After the initial program ends, the user is signed off, and the pass-through session ends.

menu
Specify the menu that is shown immediately after the initial program is run.

Top

Current library (RMTCURLIB)

Specifies the name of the library that becomes the current library in the library list of the job after automatic sign-on.

*RMTUSRPRF
The current library specified in the remote user profile becomes the current library in the library list after automatic sign-on.

library
Specify the library that becomes the current library in the library list after automatic sign-on.

Top

Display option (PASTHRSCN)

Specifies whether the pass-through display and associated status messages appear before the pass-through session is established.

*YES
The pass-through display and information messages are shown before the pass-through session is established.

*NO
The pass-through display and information messages are not shown before the pass-through session is established.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Pass-Through to Toronto

STRPASTHR RMTLOCNAME(*CNNDEV) CNNDEV(DET CHI TOR) VRTCTL(VWSC)

This command specifies starting a pass-through to the Toronto system by going through Detroit and Chicago. More information is in the Remote Work Station Support book located in the Information Center.

Example 2: Pass-Through to Detroit

STRPASTHR RMTLOCNAME(DETROIT) VRTCTL(VWSC)

This command specifies a pass-through to the Detroit system. APPN establishes the route to Detroit.

Example 3: Pass-Through to Toronto

STRPASTHR RMTLOCNAME(DETROIT) CNNDEV(CHI TOR) VRTCTL(VWSC)

This command specifies another way to pass-through to the Toronto system by going through Chicago and Detroit. APPN establishes the route to Detroit.

Example 4: Pass-Through to Detroit

STRPASTHR RMTLOCNAME(DETROIT) RMTUSER(*CURRENT)

This command specifies a pass-through to the DETROIT system and an automatic sign-on using the user profile with the same name as the one currently used on the source system. It also specifies that the DETROIT system automatically configures a virtual device for the pass-through session, since a virtual controller or virtual device was not specified.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF2702
Device description &1 not found.

CPF2703
Controller description &1 not found.

CPF5383
Mode &7 specified for device &4 not valid.

CPF5536
System cannot automatically select an APPC device description for the remote location.

CPF5546
Class-of-service for device &4 not valid.

CPF8901
Virtual device &1 not varied on.

CPF8902
Virtual device &1 not available.

CPF8903
Device &1 not valid for pass-through.

CPF8904
Pass-through request not accepted.

CPF8905
Pass-through not allowed on this system.

CPF8906
Error during session initialization. Reason code &1.

CPF8907
Communications failure for device &1.

CPF8908
Controller &1 not varied on.

CPF8909
Old software release. Pass-through ended.

CPF8910
Controller &1 not valid for pass-through.

CPF8911
Communications failure. Session was not started.

CPF8912
Pass-through session ended. Reason code &1.

CPF8913
Pass-through ended abnormally.

CPF8916
Cannot select virtual device &1 at system &2.

CPF8917
Not authorized to &1.

CPF8918
Job canceled at system &1.

CPF8919
Device &1 not accessed by system &2.

CPF8920
Pass-through failed. &1 must be varied off and on.

CPF8921
APPC failure. Failure code is &3.

CPF8922
Negative response from device &1 at system &2.

CPF8923
Data stream received at system &1 not valid.

CPF8924
No available virtual controller.

CPF8925
Device &1 not created.

CPF8928
Device &1 could not be changed.

CPF8929
Device &1 could not be varied on.

CPF8931
Location &1 not an APPC location.

CPF8932
Device &1 must be non-networking APPC device.

CPF8933
Route to specified location not found.

CPF8935
Pass-through not allowed to system &1.

CPF8936
Pass-through failed for security reasons.

CPF8937
Automatic sign on not allowed.

CPF8938
Error in QRMTSIGN program. Pass-through failed.

CPF8939
Trying to send too much data.

CPF8940
Cannot automatically select virtual device.

CPF8941
Incorrect internal use of pass-through.

CPF8943
Pass-through not allowed from server TELNET session.

*STATUS Messages

CPI8901
No matching device on remote system. Function limited.

CPI8902
Pass-through started at system &1.

CPI8903
Virtual device &1 selected at system &2.

CPI8906
Automatic sign-on not allowed.

Top