ASSUME (Assume) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

ASSUME (Assume) keyword for display files

This record-level keyword specifies that
the IBM® i operating
system is to assume that the record is already shown on the display
when the display file is opened.

Such a record can also be defined, with the KEEP keyword,
in another display file. That other display file can be closed before
this file (in which you are specifying ASSUME) is opened.
This
keyword has no parameters.
Specify the ASSUME keyword for at
least one record format within the display file so that the IBM i operating system does
not erase the display when the file is opened. In addition, specify
the OVERLAY keyword with the ASSUME keyword to prevent the IBM i operating system from
deleting the display when your program sends the first output operation
after opening the file.
If you use the ASSUME keyword, at least
one field in the record must be able to be displayed. If more than
one record with the ASSUME keyword exists, they must occupy unique
display lines.
For the IBM i operating system to
process the data correctly, your program must specify the record format
name containing this keyword.
The ASSUME keyword is not needed
if the record format you are defining is in a shared file (SHARE(*YES))
parameter specified on the Create Display File (CRTDSPF), Change Display
File (CHGDSPF), or Override with Display File (OVRDSPF) command).
This
keyword cannot be specified with any of the following keywords:

ALWROL
CLRL
SFL

SLNO
USRDFN
USRDSPMGT

A warning message is issued at file creation time if the
ASSUME keyword is specified on a record with the DSPMOD keyword. At
run time, the ASSUME keyword is ignored when the display mode changes.
A
file with the ASSUME keyword will be opened to the display size of
the file with the KEEP keyword.
Option indicators are not valid
for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how
to specify the ASSUME keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00005A R RECORD ASSUME
A