Defining commands

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining and documenting commands

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands

Defining commands
CL commands enable you to request a broad range
of functions. You can use IBM-supplied commands, change the default values
for command parameters, and define your own commands.
A CL command is a statement that requests that the system perform
a function. Entering the command starts a program that performs the function.
CL commands allow you to request a broad range of functions. You can use these
IBM-supplied commands, change the default values that are supplied by IBM,
and even define your own commands.
When you define and create your own
CL commands, you might also want to provide documentation for them.

Command definition statements
Command definition allows system users to create additional commands
to meet specific application needs.
Command definition process
The overall process to define your own command
involves several different phases, some of which are optional.
Defining a command
To create a command, you must first define the command through
command definition statements.
Data type and parameter restrictions
These tables show the valid combinations of parameters according
to the parameter type.
Defining lists for parameters
You can define a parameter to accept a list of values instead of
just a single value.
Specifying prompt control
You can control which parameters are displayed for
a command during prompting by using prompt control specifications.
Key parameters and prompt override programs
The prompt override program allows current values rather than defaults
to be displayed when a command is prompted. Key parameters are parameters,
such as the name of an object, that uniquely identify the object.
Creating commands
After you have defined your command through the command definition
statements, use the Create Command (CRTCMD) command to
create the command.
Displaying a command definition
To display or print the values that are specified as parameters
on the Create Command (CRTCMD) command, use the Display
Command (DSPCMD) command.
Effect of changing the command definition of a command in a procedure or program
Some changes can be made to the command definition
of a command with no further action. Other changes might require the program
or procedure to be re-created, or might cause the program or procedure to
function differently.
Command processing program
A command processing program (CPP) is a program that processes
a command. This program performs some validity checking and processes the
command so that the requested function is performed.
Validity checking program
To detect syntax errors and send diagnostic messages for your command,
write a validity checking program.
Examples: Defining and creating commands
These examples show how to define and create
commands.

Parent topic: Defining and documenting commands

Related concepts
Variables that replace reserved or numeric parameter values

Related tasks
Variables to use for specifying a list or qualified name
Documenting command

Related reference
Abbreviations of CL commands and keywords