Create Distribution List (CRTDSTL)

Create Distribution List (CRTDSTL)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Create Distribution List (CRTDSTL) command allows you to create a new distribution list, which is a list of entries from the distribution directory. It can include entries for local users, remote users, indirect users, and programmable work station users. It can also include remote distribution lists, but not local distribution lists. The Create Distribution List (CRTDSTL) command creates the distribution list with no entries. The Add Distribution List Entry (ADDDSTLE) command is used to add entries to the distribution list.

Restriction: The list identifier (ID) must be unique to all local user IDs, as well as to other list IDs in the directory.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
LSTID | List identifier | Element list | Required, Positional 1
Element 1: List ID | Character value
Element 2: List ID qualifier | Character value
LSTD | List description | Character value | Required, Positional 2
CMDCHRID | Command character identifier | Single values: *SYSVAL, *DEVD
Other values: Element list | Optional
Element 1: Graphic character set | Integer
Element 2: Code page | Integer

Top

List identifier (LSTID)

Specifies the unique, two-part list identifier of the distribution list. The same rules and restrictions that apply to user ID and address also apply to the distribution list ID. A maximum of 8 characters can be specified for each part.

This is a required parameter.

If any lowercase characters are specified, the system changes them to, and stores them as, uppercase characters.

Top

List description (LSTD)

Specifies the description of the distribution list that further identifies the distribution list. A maximum of 50 characters can be specified.

Top

Command character identifier (CMDCHRID)

Specifies the character identifier (graphic character set and code page) for the data being entered as command parameter values.

Note:

- Only the user ID and address, system name and group, department, and the X.400 O/R parameters are translated to the graphic character set identifier (GCID) specified on this parameter. All other parameter values that you specify are stored exactly as they are entered; the GCID value is stored with them.

- If this command is run interactively, the default GCID value is taken from the display device description. If it is run in batch, the default GCID value is taken from the QCHRID system value. You can override these values by specifying a specific character set and code page on this parameter.

Single values

*SYSVAL
The system determines the graphic character set and code page values for the command parameters from the QCHRID system value.

*DEVD
The system determines the graphic character set and code page values from the display device description where this command was entered. This option is valid only when entered from an interactive job. If this option is specified in a batch job, an error occurs.

Element 1: Graphic character set

1-32767
Specify the graphic character set to use.

Element 2: Code page

1-32767
Specify the code page to use.

Top

Examples

CRTDSTL LSTID(DEPT48K DLIST)
LSTD('Department 48K Distribution List')

This command creates a distribution list that contains the members of Department&rbl.48K. If this list ID is unique, the distribution list is created.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF9009
System requires file &1 in &2 be journaled.

CPF905C
Error occurred trying to find a translation table.

CPF9088
List &1 &2 not created in the directory.

CPF9096
Cannot use CMDCHRID(*DEVD), DOCCHRID(*DEVD) in batch job.

CPF9838
User profile storage limit exceeded.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

CPF9846
Error while processing file &1 in library &2.

Top