Work with Network Files (WRKNETF)

Work with Network Files (WRKNETF)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Work with Network Files (WRKNETF) command displays or prints a list of files that have arrived for a user, or creates an output file containing a list of the files. When the list is shown, you can:

- Receive the file into a user file.

- Delete the file.

- Browse the file (not valid for save files).

- Submit files (submit the input stream). (Also not valid for save files).

This command does not perform any CCSID translation on the contents of the file. However,the user ID and address of both the recipient and the originator are translated from the multinational character set 697/500 to the current job CCSID.

Restrictions:

- A user with security officer authority can display the network files for any user. Users other than the security officer can show only those files that were sent to them or to their group profile.

- To perform any of the options from this display, you must be authorized to the command corresponding to that option. For example, you must be authorized to the Display Physical File Member (DSPPFM) command for the browse function, and the Submit Database Jobs (SBMDBJOB) command for the submit job function.

- To perform WRKNETF in debug mode, update of production files must be allowed by specifying UPDPROD(*YES) on the STRDBG command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
USER | User | Name, *CURRENT, *ALL | Optional, Positional 1
OUTPUT | Output | *, *PRINT, *OUTFILE | Optional, Positional 2
OUTFILE | File to receive output | Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: File to receive output | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
OUTMBR | Output member options | Element list | Optional
Element 1: Member to receive output | Name, *FIRST
Element 2: Replace or add records | *REPLACE, *ADD

Top

User (USER)

Specifies the user for whom the files are shown.

*CURRENT
The network files for the current user are shown.

*ALL
The network files for all users are shown.

user-name
Specify the name of the specified user whose files are shown.

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether the output from the command is displayed at the requesting work station or printed with the job's spooled output.

The possible values are:

*
The output is displayed (if requested by an interactive job) or printed with the job's spooled output (if requested by a batch job).

*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output.

*OUTFILE
The output is directed to the database file specified for the File to receive output (OUTFILE) parameter.

Top

File to receive output (OUTFILE)

Specifies the name and library of the database file to which the output of the command is directed. If the file does not exist, this command creates a database file in the specified library.

The possible library values are:

*LIBL
The library list is used to locate the file.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is used to locate the file. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, QGPL is used.

library-name
Specify the library where the file is located.

Top

Member to receive output (OUTMBR)

Specifies the name of the database file member that receives the output of the command.

The possible name values are:

*FIRST
The first member in the file receives the output. If it does not exist, the system creates a member with the name of the file specified on the File to receive output prompt (OUTFILE parameter).

member-name
Specify the name of the file member that receives the output. If it does not exist, the system creates it.

The possible values for how information is stored are:

*REPLACE
The system clears the existing member and adds the new records.

*ADD
The system adds the new records to the end of the existing records.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Working with User's Network Files

WRKNETF

This command allows you to work with all network files for the user running this command. If the command is issued as an interactive job, the list of files is shown at the requesting work station. If the command is issued as a batch job, the list of files is printed with the job's spooled output.

Example 2: Printing Output

WRKNETF USER(USR1) OUTPUT(*PRINT)

This command allows you to work with the network files for USR1 and prints the output with the job's spooled output. This command can only be issued by USR1, a member of the USR1 group, or a user with security officer authority.

Example 3: Working with Network Files for All Users

WRKNETF USER(*ALL) OUTPUT(*OUTFILE) OUTFILE(NETFILES)

This command allows you to work with the network files for all users and is written to the first member of a database named NETFILES. If the file exists in a library on the library list, the existing file is used; otherwise, the file is created in the QGPL library. If the file did not exist, or did not contain any members, a member with the same name as the file is added to the file; otherwise, the first member of the file is cleared and used. This command can be issued only by a user with security officer rights.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF2204
User profile &1 not found.

CPF8070
Not allowed to process files for user &1.

CPF9005
System resource required to complete this request not available.

CPF9006
User not enrolled in system distribution directory.

CPF9830
Cannot assign library &1.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

CPF9846
Error while processing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9847
Error occurred while closing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9860
Error occurred during output file processing.

Top