Allocating resources

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Objects and libraries

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries

Allocating resources
Objects are allocated on the system to guarantee integrity and
to promote the highest possible degree of concurrency.
An object is protected even though several operations may be
performed on it at the same time. For example, an object is allocated so
that two users can read the object at the same time or one user can only read
the object while another can read and update the same object.
The i5/OS® operating system allocates
objects by the function being performed on the object. For example:
If a user is displaying or dumping an object, another user can read the
object.
If a user is changing, deleting, renaming, or moving an object, no one
else can use the object.
If a user is saving an object, someone else can read the object, but not
update or delete it; if a user is restoring the object, no one else can read
or update the object.
If a user is opening a database file for input, another user can read
the file. If a user is opening a database file for output, another user can
update the file.
If a user is opening a device file, another user can only read the file.

Generally, objects are allocated on demand; that is, when a job step
needs an object, it allocates the object, uses the object, and deallocates
the object so another job can use it. The first job that requests the object
is allocated the object. In your program, you can handle the exceptions that
occur if an object cannot be allocated by your request.
Sometimes you
want to allocate an object for a job before the job needs the object, to ensure
its availability so a function that has only partially completed would not
have to wait for an object. This is called preallocating an object. You can
preallocate objects using the Allocate Object (ALCOBJ) command.
To allocate an object, you must have object existence authority, object management
authority, or operational authority for the object.
Allocated objects
are automatically deallocated at the end of a routing step. To deallocate
an object at any other time, use the Deallocate Object (DLCOBJ) command.
You
can allocate a program before it is called to protect it from being deleted.
To prevent a program from running in different jobs at the same time, an
exclusive lock must be placed on the program in each job before the program
is called in any job.
You cannot use the ALCOBJ or DLCOBJ commands to
allocate an APPC device description.
The following example is a batch
job that needs two files members for updating. Members from either file can
be read by another program while being updated, but no other programs can
update these members while this job is running. The first member of each
file is preallocated with an exclusive-allow-read lock state.
//JOB JOBD(ORDER)
ALCOBJ OBJ((FILEA *FILE *EXCLRD) (FILEB *FILE *EXCLRD))
CALL PROGX
//ENDJOB
Objects that are allocated to you should be deallocated as
soon as you are finished using them because other users may need those objects.
However, allocated objects are automatically deallocated at the end of the
routing step.
If the first members of FILEA and FILEB had not been preallocated,
the exclusive-allow-read restriction would not have been in effect. When you
are using files, you may want to preallocate them so that you are assured
they are not changing while you are using them.
Note: If a single object
has been allocated more than once (by more than one allocate command), a single
DLCOBJ command will not completely deallocate that object. One deallocate
command is required for each allocate command.
The WAITRCD parameter
on a Create File command specifies how long to wait for a record lock. The
DFTWAIT parameter on the Create Class (CRTCLS) command
specifies how long to wait for other objects.

Lock states for objects
A lock state identifies the use of the
object and whether it is shared.
Displaying the lock states for objects
The Work with Object Locks
(WRKOBJLCK) command or the Work with Job (WRKJOB) command
displays the lock states for objects.

Parent topic: Objects and libraries

Related tasks
Defining message descriptions
Messages

Related information
Allocate Object (ALCOBJ) command
Deallocate Object (DLCOBJ) command
Database Programming: Lock records