Controlling processing within a CL program or CL procedure

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > CL programming

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming

Controlling processing within a CL program or CL procedure
You can use commands to change the flow of logic within your CL
procedure.
Commands in a CL procedure are processed in consecutive sequence.
Each command is processed, one after another, in the sequence in which it
is encountered. You can alter this consecutive processing using commands
that change the flow of logic in the procedure. These commands can be conditional
or unconditional.
Unconditional branching means that you can instruct
processing to branch to commands or sets of commands located anywhere in the
procedure without regard to what conditions exist at the time the branch instruction
is processed. Unconditional processing commands include:
GOTO
ITERATE
LEAVE
CALLSUBR

Conditional branching means that under certain specified
conditions, processing can branch to sections or commands that are not consecutive
within the procedure. The branching can be to any statement in the procedure.
This is called conditional processing because the branching only occurs when
the specified condition is true. Conditional processing is typically
associated with the IF command. With the ELSE command, you can specify alternative
processing if the condition is not true.The simple DO command allows you to
create groups of commands that are always processed together, as a group,
under specified conditions. Conditional processing commands include:
IF and THEN
SELECT, WHEN, and OTHERWISE
DOFOR
DOWHILE
DOUNTIL

GOTO command and command labels in a CL program or procedure
The Go To (GOTO) command processes an unconditional
branch.
IF command in a CL program or procedure
The If (IF) command is used
to state a condition that, if true, specifies a statement or group of statements
in the program or procedure to be run.
ELSE command in a CL program or procedure
The Else (ELSE) command is a way of specifying
alternative processing if the condition on the associated If (IF) command
is false.
Embedded IF commands in a CL program or procedure
An If (IF) command can be embedded in another IF command.
DO command and DO groups in a CL program or procedure
The Do (DO) command allows you to process a
group of commands together.
Showing DO and SELECT nesting levels
You can specify a CL compiler option to see the nesting
level for all types of DO commands as well as SELECT commands.
DOUNTIL command in a CL program or procedure
The Do Until (DOUNTIL) command processes a group
of CL commands one or more times.
DOWHILE command in a CL program or procedure
The Do While (DOWHILE) command lets you process
a group of commands zero or more times while the value of a logical expression
is true.
DOFOR command in a CL program or procedure
The Do For (DOFOR) command lets you process
a group of commands a specified number of times.
ITERATE command in a CL program or procedure
The Iterate (ITERATE) command can be used to
skip the remaining commands in an active DOWHILE, DOUNTIL, or DOFOR group.
LEAVE command in a CL program or procedure
The Leave (LEAVE) command can be used to exit
an active DOWHILE, DOUNTIL, or DOFOR group.
CALLSUBR command in a CL program or procedure
The Call Subroutine (CALLSUBR) command
is used in a CL program or procedure for passing control to a subroutine that
is defined within the same program or procedure.
SELECT command and SELECT groups in a CL program or procedure
The Select (SELECT) command is used to identify
one or more conditions and an associated group of commands to process when
that condition is true.
SUBR command and subroutines in a CL program or procedure
The Subroutine (SUBR) command
is used in a CL program or procedure, along with the End Subroutine
(ENDSUBR) command, to delimit the group of commands that define
a subroutine.
*AND, *OR, and *NOT operators
The logical operators *AND and *OR specify the relationship between
operands in a logical expression. The logical operator *NOT is used to negate
logical variables or constants.
%ADDRESS built-in function in a CL program or procedure
The address built-in function (%ADDRESS or %ADDR) can be used to
change or test the memory address stored in a CL pointer variable and can
only be used within a CL program or procedure.
%BINARY built-in function
The binary built-in function (%BINARY or %BIN) interprets
the contents of a specified CL character variable as a signed binary integer.
%OFFSET built-in function
The offset built-in function (%OFFSET
or %OFS) can be used to store or change the offset portion of a CL pointer
variable and can only be used within a CL program or procedure.
%SUBSTRING built-in function
The substring built-in function (%SUBSTRING or
%SST) produces a character string that is a subset of an existing
character string. This function can only be used within a CL program or procedure.
%SWITCH built-in function
The switch built-in function (%SWITCH) compares one or more of
eight switches with the eight switch settings already established for the
job and returns a logical value of '0' or '1'.
Monitor Message command
The Monitor Message (MONMSG) command
is used to monitor for escape, notify, or status messages that are sent to
the call stack of the CL program or procedure in which the MONMSG command
is used.

Parent topic: CL programming

Related concepts
Variables in CL commands

Related information
CL command finder