Work with Reply List Entries (WRKRPYLE)

Work with Reply List Entries (WRKRPYLE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Work with System Reply List Entries (WRKRPYLE) command can be used to display or print all the reply entries currently in the system message reply list. The system reply list contains the replies that are automatically sent in response to inquiry messages. The following information is shown for each reply in the system reply list:

- Sequence number

- Message ID

- Reply

- Dump indication

- Compare value

- Compare start position

From this display, you can add, change, or remove individual reply list entries.

The QSYS2.REPLY_LIST_INFO view returns similar information.

The reply list is only used when an inquiry message is sent by a job that has the inquiry message reply attribute of the system reply list specified (*SYSRPYL is specified for the INQMSGRPY parameter). The INQMSGRPY attribute can be changed with the CHGJOB command.

You can add reply list entries with the Add Reply List Entry (ADDRPYLE) command. Specific attributes of a reply list entry can be changed with the Change Reply List Entry (CHGRPYLE) command. Each reply list entry remains in the list until it is removed by the Remove Reply List Entry (RMVRPYLE) command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
OUTPUT | Output | *, *PRINT | Optional, Positional 1

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether the output from the command is displayed at the requesting work station or printed with the job's spooled output.

*
The output is displayed for interactive jobs or printed with the job's spooled output for non-interactive jobs.

*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output.

Top

Examples

WRKRPYLE OUTPUT(*PRINT)

This command prints the entries in the system reply list.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF2435
System reply list not found.

CPF2557
System reply list damaged.

CPF2558
System reply list currently in use.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

CPF9846
Error while processing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9847
Error occurred while closing file &1 in library &2.

Top