ILE C/C++ Runtime Library Functions

IBM i programming resources > ILE C/C++ > Runtime Library functions > Appendixes

IBM i programming resources > ILE C/C++ > Runtime Library functions > Appendixes

ILE C/C++ Runtime Library Functions

Bibliography
For additional information about topics related to ILE C/C++
programming on the IBM® i platform,
refer to the following IBM i
publications and IBM i Information
Center topics:
(http://www.ibm.com/systems/i/infocenter/)

The Application programming interfaces topic
in the Programming category of the IBM i
Information Center provides information for experienced application
and system programmers who want to use the application programming
interfaces (APIs).
Application Display Programming provides information about using DDS to create and
maintain displays, creating and working with display files, creating
online help information, using UIM to define displays, and using panel
groups, records, and documents.
The Backup and recovery topic
in the Systems management category of the IBM i Information Center includes information about
how to plan a backup and recovery strategy, how to back up your system,
how to manage tape libraries, and how to set up disk protection for
your data. It also includes information about the Backup, Recovery
and Media Services plug-in to IBM i
Navigator, information about recovering your system, and answers to
some frequently asked questions about backup and recovery.
Recovering your system provides
general information about recovery and availability options for the IBM i platform. It describes the
options available on the system, compares and contrasts them, and
tells where to find more information about them.
The Control language topic in the Programming
category of the IBM i Information
Center provides a description of the control language commands. It
also provides a wide-ranging discussion of programming topics including
a general discussion on objects and libraries, CL programming, controlling
flow and communicating between programs, working with objects in CL
programs, and creating CL programs. Other topics include predefined
and impromptu messages and message handling, defining and creating
user-defined commands and menus, application testing, including debug
mode, breakpoints, traces, and display functions.
Communications Management provides information about work management in a communications
environment, communications status, tracing and diagnosing communications
problems, error handling and recovery, performance, and specific line
speed and subsystem storage information.
The Files and file systems category
in the IBM i Information Center
provides information about using files in application programs.
The globalization topic in
the Programming category of the IBM i
Information Center provides information for planning, installing,
configuring, and using globalization and multilingual support of the IBM i product. It also provides
an explanation of the database management of multilingual data and
application considerations for a multilingual system.
The ICF Programming manual provides information needed
to write application programs that use communications and the intersystem
communications function (IBM i -ICF).
It also contains information about data description specifications
(DDS) keywords, system-supplied formats, return codes, file transfer
support, and program examples.
ILE Concepts explains concepts and terminology
pertaining to the Integrated Language Environment® architecture of
the IBM i licensed program.
Topics covered include creating modules, binding, running programs,
debugging programs, and handling exceptions.
The Printing category
of information in the IBM i
Information Center provides information about how to plan for and
configure printing functions, as well as basic printing information.
The Basic printing topic provides
specific information about printing elements and concepts of the IBM i product, printer file and
print spooling support, and printer connectivity.
The Security category in
the IBM i Information Center
provides information about how to set up and plan for your system
security, how to secure network and communications applications, and
how to add highly secure cryptographic processing capability to your
product. It also includes information about object signing and signature
validation, identity mapping, and solutions to Internet security risks.
Security reference tells how system security support
can be used to protect the system and data from being used by people
who do not have the proper authorization, protect data from intentional
or unintentional damage or destruction, keep security information
up-to-date, and set up security on the system.
The Systems management category in the IBM i Information Center provides
information about the system unit control panel, starting and stopping
the system, using tapes and diskettes, working with program temporary
fixes, as well as handling problems.
ILE C/C++ Language Reference contains
reference information for the C/C++ languages.
ILE C/C++ Compiler Reference contains
reference information about using preprocessor statements, macros
defined by and pragmas recognized by the ILE C/C++ compiler, command
line options for both IBM i
and QShell working environments, and I/O considerations for the IBM i environment.
IBM Rational® Development Studio for i: ILE C/C++ Programmer's Guide,
provides information about how to develop applications using the ILE C language.
It includes information about creating, running and debugging programs.
It also includes programming considerations for interlanguage program
and procedure calls, locales, handling exceptions, database, externally
described and device files. Some performance tips are also described.
An appendix includes information about migrating source code from
EPM C or System C to ILE C.
For more information about programming utilities, see the following
books at the IBM Publications
Center:

ADTS/400: Programming Development Manager
ADTS for AS/400®: Screen Design Aid
ADTS for AS/400: Source Entry Utility

[ Top of Page | Previous Page | Next Page | Contents |
Index ]