COMP (Comparison) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

COMP (Comparison) keyword for display files

You use this field-level keyword
to specify that the IBM® i operating
system is to compare the data that the workstation user types into an input
or input/output field with the specified value.

The relational operator is the criterion for the comparison. If
the data typed in this field fails this validity check, the IBM i operating
system displays an error message. Note that the IBM i operating
system performs this checking only if the field is changed by the workstation
user or if its modified data tag (MDT) is set on using DSPATR(MDT).
Note: See CHKMSGID (Check Message Identifier) keyword for display files for information
about defining user-specified error messages.
The format of the keyword
is:
COMP(relational-operator value)You can specify
only one operation for the COMP keyword and only one COMP keyword for a field.
The
valid entries for the relational operator are:

Relational operator
Meaning

EQ

Equal

NE

Not equal

LT

Less than

NL

Not less than

GT

Greater than

NG

Not greater than

LE

Less than or equal

GE

Greater than or equal

The specified value must be either numeric or character,
depending on the data type (decimal positions entry). Numeric values are expressed
by the digits 0 through 9 and a leading sign (+ or -). Character values must
be enclosed in single quotation marks.
Note: If the field you are defining
is numeric, alignment is based on the decimal positions specified (in positions
36 and 37), and leading and trailing blanks are filled with zeros. If no decimal
point is typed in, the decimal point is assumed to be to the right of the
last (farthest right) digit. For example, for a numeric field with a length
of 5 (specified in position 34) and 2 decimal positions (specified in position
37), 1.2 is interpreted as 001.20, and 100 is interpreted as 100.00.
You
cannot specify the COMP keyword on a floating-point field (F in position 35).
Option
indicators are not valid for this keyword.

Example The following example shows how to specify
the COMP keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A FIELD2 6 OI 10 10COMP(EQ +021920)
00020A FIELD1 3 I 11 11COMP(EQ 'ABC')
A