POST (Post)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes > Operation Codes

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes

POST (Post)

Free-Form Syntax

POST{(E)} {program-device} file-name

Code

Factor 1

Factor 2

Result Field

Indicators

POST (E)

program-device

file-name

INFDS name

_

ER

_

The POST operation puts information in an INFDS (file information
data structure). This information contains the following:

File Feedback Information specific to RPG I/O for the file

Open Feedback Information for the file

Input/Output Feedback Information and Device Dependent Feedback
Information for the file OR Get Attribute Information

The program-device operand specifies a program
device name to get information about that specific program device.
If you specify a program device, the file must be defined as a WORKSTN
file. If program-device is specified, then the
INFDS will contain Get Attribute Information following the Open Feedback
Information. Use either a character field of length 10 or less, a
character literal, or a character named constant. If program-device is
not specified, then the INFDS will contain Input/Output Feedback Information
and Device Dependent Feedback Information following the Open Feedback
Information.

Specify the name of a file in the file-name operand.
Information for this file is posted in the INFDS associated with
this file.

In free-form syntax, you must specify a file-name and
cannot specify an INFDS name. In traditional syntax, you can specify
a file-name, an INFDS name, or both.

If you do not specify an INFDS name, the
INFDS associated with this file using the INFDS keyword in the file
specification will be used.

If you do not specify an INFDS name in traditional
syntax, you must specify the data structure name that has been used
in the INFDS keyword for the file specification in the result field;
information from the associated file in the file specification will
be posted.

To handle POST exceptions (file status codes greater
than 1000), either the operation code extender 'E' or an error indicator
ER can be specified, but not both. For more information on error handling,
see File Exception/Errors.

Even when a POST operation code is not processed, its
existence in your program can affect the way the RPG IV language
operates. The presence of a POST operation with no program-device
specified can affect the posting of feedback to one or more files.

The presence of a POST operation with no program-device specified
for a file defined on a global File specification will affect the
implicit posting of feedback to the INFDS for all global files in
the module.

The presence of a POST operation with no program-device specified
for a global file will have no effect on the implicit posting of feedback
to the INFDS for files defined in subprocedures.

The presence of a POST operation with no program-device specified
for a locally-defined file will only affect the implicit posting of
feedback to the INFDS for that file; it will have no effect for global
files, or for other files defined in that subprocedure.

The implicit posting of feedback to the INFDS for a file that
is passed as a parameter is determined by the module in which the
file is defined. A POST operation with no program-device specified
to a file parameter may be redundant if the feedback information is
always posted to that file's INFDS.

If a global file is passed as a parameter to another procedure
in the same module, and that procedure does a POST operation to its
parameter, that POST operation will not be considered to be a POST
operation to a global file.

Usually, the INFDS is updated at each input and output
operation or block of operations. However, if the presence of a POST
operation affects the posting of feedback to the INFDS of a file,
then RPG IV updates the I/O Feedback Information area and the Device
Dependent Feedback Information area in the INFDS of the file only
when you process a POST operation for the file. The File Dependent
Information in the INFDS is updated on all Input/Output operations.
If you have opened a file for multiple-member processing, the Open
Feedback Information in the INFDS will be updated when an input operation
(READ, READP, READE READPE) causes a new member to be opened.

Note that DUMP retrieves its information directly from the Open
Data Path and not from the INFDS, so the file information sections
of the DUMP do not depend on POST.

If a program has no POST operation code, or if it has only POST
operation codes with program-device specified,
the Input/Output Feedback and Device Dependent Feedback section is
updated with each input/output operation or block of operations. If
RPG is blocking records, most of the information in the INFDS will
be valid only for the last complete block of records processed. When
doing blocked input, from a data base file, RPG will update the relative
record number and key information in the INFDS for each read, not
just the last block of records processed. If you require more accurate
information, do not use record blocking. See File Information Data Structure for
more information on record blocking. If you do not require feedback
information after every input/output operation, you may be able to
improve performance by using the POST operation only when you require
the feedback information.

When a POST operation is processed, the associated file must be
open. If you specify a program device on the POST operation, it does
not have to be acquired by the file.

For more information, see File Operations.

Parent topic: Operation Codes