Dump BRMS (DMPBRM)

Dump BRMS (DMPBRM)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Dump BRM (DMPBRM) command saves BRMS files and related files to assist IBM support personnel in problem determination. You can specify various levels of detail and one or more job logs to dump. This command saves various files from QUSRBRM and related system files (depending on the specified level) to a device or save file. This information is used in problem determination by your technical representative. Processing this command should be done in conjunction with this representative.

To use this command, you must have the Backup Recovery and Media Services for IBM i licensed program installed.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
DEV | Device | Name, *SAVF | Required, Positional 1
VOL | Volume identifier | Character value, *MOUNTED | Optional
LVL | Level | 1-9, *ALL | Optional
TGTRLS | Target release | Character value, *CURRENT | Optional
DMPDEV | Dump device | Single values: *ALL, *NONE
Other values (up to 10 repetitions): Name | Optional
JOBLOG | Joblog to dump | *NONE, *JOB | Optional
JOB | Job name | Single values: *
Other values (up to 10 repetitions): Element list | Optional
Element 1: Job name | Qualified job name
Qualifier 1: Job name | Name
Qualifier 2: User | Name
Qualifier 3: Number | 000000-999999

Top

Device (DEV)

Specifies the name of the device or save file to which you want the dump information to be saved.

*SAVF
Write the dump information to a save file.

device-name
Specify the name of the device to which you want to write the dump information.

Top

Volume identifier (VOL)

Specifies the volume identifier to dump the data to.

*MOUNTED
Any labeled volume that is placed in the specified device is used.

volume-identifier
Specify the identifier of the labeled volume to use.

Top

Level (LVL)

Specifies the level of detail to be included in the dump. The level of detail can range from 1 to 9 with 1 being the least amount of detail and 9 being the most detail. You should ask your support representative for the level of detail to specify.

*ALL
Include all information required by your service provider.

level-of-detail
Specify the level of detail that you want to include in the dump.

Top

Target release (TGTRLS)

Specifies the release of the operating system on which you intend to restore the objects being saved.

*CURRENT
The objects are to be restored on a system that is running the same release of the operating system currently running on your system. For example, if V5R2M0 is running on the system, *CURRENT means that you intend to restore the objects on a system with V5R2M0 installed. The objects can also be restored on a system with any subsequent release of the operating system installed.

*PRV
The objects are to be restored on a system that is running on the previous release with modification level 0 of the operating system. For example if V5R2M0 is running on your system, *PRV means you intend to restore the objects on a system with V5R1M0 installed. The object can also be restored on a system with any subsequent release of the operating system installed.

Note: Not all objects can be targeted to another release. Objects that are new to a release typically cannot be saved to a previous release.

target-release
Specify the release in the format VxRxMx, where Vx is the version, Rx is the release, and Mx is the modification level. For example, V5R2M0 is version 5, release 2, modification level 0.
The objects can be restored on a system with the specified release or with any subsequent release of the operating system installed.

Note: Not all objects can be targeted to another release. Objects that are new to a release typically cannot be saved to a previous release.

Valid values depend on the current version, release, and modification level, and they change with each new release. If you specify a release-level that is earlier than the earliest release level supported by this command, an error message is sent indicating the earliest supported release.

Top

Dump device (DMPDEV)

Specifies a device or devices for which you would like to get diagnostic information. When specified, BRMS invokes the QTADMPDV API to gather this information using the special value *SPLF as the problem identifier.

Note: When an *APPC or *NET type device is specified for this parameter, BRMS will dump the save/restore flight recorder.

Single values

*ALL
All devices defined to BRMS are included in the information to be gathered.

*NONE
No devices are specified.

Other values (up to 10 repetitions)

device-name
Specify the device for which you want to gather diagnostic information.

Top

Joblog to dump (JOBLOG)

Specifies whether you want to dump job log information.

*NONE
Do not dump job log information.

*JOB
Dump job log information from the specified jobs.

Top

Job (JOB)

Specifies the name of the job whose job log information is to be retrieved.

Single values

*
Dump information from the current job.

Other values (up to 10 repetitions)

Qualifier 1: Job name

job-name
Specify the name of the job to be dumped. If no job qualifier if given, all of the jobs currently in the system are searched for the simple job name.

Qualifier 2: User

user-name
Specify the name that identifies the user profile under which the job is run.

Qualifier 3: Number

number
Specify the job number assigned by the system.

Top

Examples for DMPBRM

DMPBRM DEV(TAP01) LVL(2) JOBLOG(*JOB)

This command causes level 2 dump information, along with the job log for the current job, to be written to tape unit TAP01.

Top

Error messages for DMPBRM

*ESCAPE Messages

BRM1917
Feature not installed.

BRM1921
Feature not licensed.

BRM4060
BRMS product initialization required.

BRM40A2
BRMS product initialization required.

CPF9800
All CPF98xx messages could be signaled. xx is from 01 to FF.

Top