SETOF (Set Off) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

SETOF (Set Off) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword
to specify that when an input operation sent to this record format is completed,
the specified response indicator is to be set off.

See System/36 environment considerations for display files for information
about how to specify the SETOF keyword in files that are used in the System/36 environment.
The
format of the keyword is: SETOF(response-indicator ['text'])
The
optional text is included on the computer printout created at program compilation
to explain the intended use of the indicator. This text functions only as
a comment in the file or program. The single quotation marks are required.
If you specify more than 50 characters between the single quotation marks,
the text is truncated to 50 characters on the program listing.
This
keyword can be used to cause an option indicator that is on for an output
operation to be returned in the off condition when the next input operation
to the record is completed. (If no input operation is performed, the response
indicator remains unchanged.) Your program does not need to turn off the indicator.
SETOF
is equivalent to the SETOFF keyword.
Any indicator is valid for this
keyword. It does not need to be previously defined as an option or a response
indicator. The indicator becomes a response indicator when you specify SETOF.
If
the indicator used with the SETOF keyword is also used with another keyword,
such as CHANGE, the on/off status of the indicator is controlled by the other
keyword.
Option indicators are not valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the SETOF keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R CUSMST SETOF(63 'On=display MSG2000 +
00020A CONSOLEMSG')
00030A QRYORD 3 0I 5 3
00040A 63 ERRMSGID(MSG2000 CONSOLEMSG)
AA MSG2000 message is displayed on the message line when
the program sends an output operation to CUSMST with indicator 63 set on.
On the next input operation to CUSMST, the SETOF keyword sets off indicator
63. (Indicator 63 is used as both an option and a response indicator.)