Add Distribution List Entry (ADDDSTLE)

Add Distribution List Entry (ADDDSTLE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Add Distribution List Entry (ADDDSTLE) command allows you to add new entries to an existing distribution list. A distribution list can include local, remote, indirect, and programmable work station users. It can also include remote distribution lists, but not local distribution lists.

Up to 300 entries can be added to a distribution list at one time. In addition, up to 50 local distribution list IDs can be specified whose members are all to become part of this list.

The distribution list must exist before this command can be run. The Create Distribution List (CRTDSTL) command can be used to create a new distribution list.

Restriction: The user of this command must have security administrator authority to add entries to a distribution list owned by someone else. Users can add entries to a distribution list they have created without restrictions.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
LSTID | List identifier | Element list | Required, Positional 1
Element 1: List ID | Character value
Element 2: List ID qualifier | Character value
USRID | User identifier | Single values: *NONE
Other values (up to 300 repetitions): Element list | Optional
Element 1: User ID | Character value
Element 2: Address | Character value
Element 3: User description | Character value, *FIRST
FROMLSTID | From list identifier | Single values: *NONE
Other values (up to 50 repetitions): Element list | Optional
Element 1: List ID | Character value
Element 2: List ID qualifier | Character value
CMDCHRID | Command character identifier | Single values: *SYSVAL, *DEVD
Other values: Element list | Optional
Element 1: Graphic character set | Integer
Element 2: Code page | Integer

Top

List identifier (LSTID)

Specifies the two-part list identifier of the distribution list that is to have entries added.

This is a required parameter.

list-identification
Specify the list ID in two parts.
More information about specifying the list ID is in SNA Distribution Services book, SC41-5410.

If any lowercase characters are specified, the system changes them to, and stores them as, uppercase characters.

Top

User identifier (USRID)

Specifies the user ID, address, and description of the user that is to be added to the distribution list. Both the user ID and address must be provided. A list ID (both parts) is used in place of the user ID and address to identify a remote distribution list ID being added to the distribution list. A remote distribution list can be added to a local directory as a remote user, or can be valid because of a default *ANY entry. The description can be specified and it must exactly match the entry as it is known in the directory. If no description is specified, *FIRST is the default.

Up to 300 sets of user IDs, addresses, and descriptions can be specified. Each valid set is added to the distribution list.

*NONE
No user ID is specified. If *NONE is specified, a value other than *NONE must be specified on the From list identifier (FROMLSTID) parameter.

user-id and address
Specify both the user ID and address.

If any lowercase characters are specified, the system changes them to, and stores them as, uppercase characters.

A remote list ID can also be typed in this field.

*FIRST
The first description in the specified user ID and address is added. If only one entry exists, it is the one added to the list.

user-description
Specify a maximum of 50 characters for the description of the user. If a list ID is specified, enter the list description. You must enter the description exactly as it appears in the directory entry or an error message is returned.

Top

From list identifier (FROMLSTID)

Specifies the name of an existing distribution list whose entries are added to this list. A maximum of 50 list IDs can be specified. Duplicate entries are not removed.

*NONE
No list ID is specified.

from-list-identification
Specify the two-part list ID of a distribution list whose entries are added to this list.

Top

Command character identifier (CMDCHRID)

Specifies the character identifier (graphic character set and code page) for the data entered as command parameter values. The value you specify on this parameter applies to the List identifier (LSTID) parameter, the User identifier (USRID) parameter, and the From list identifier (FROMLSTID) parameter.

Note:

- Only the user ID and address, system name and group, department, and the X.400 O/R parameters are translated to the graphic character set identifier (GCID) specified on this parameter. All other parameter values that you specify are stored exactly as they are entered; the GCID value is stored with them.

- If this command is run interactively, the default GCID value is taken from the display device description. If it is run in batch, the default GCID value is taken from the QCHRID system value. You can override these values by specifying a specific character set and code page on this parameter.

Single values

*SYSVAL
The system determines the graphic character set and code page values for the command parameters from the QCHRID system value.

*DEVD
The system determines the graphic character set and code page values from the display device description where this command was entered. This option is valid only when entered from an interactive job. If this option is specified in a batch job, an error occurs.

Element 1: Graphic character set

1-32767
Specify the graphic character set to use.

Element 2: Code page

1-32767
Specify the code page to use.

Top

Examples

ADDDSTLE LSTID(CHICAGO DLIST)
USRID((HURST NEWYORK 'Manager of Payroll')
(LEE DEPT554 *FIRST)
(BOCA DLIST 'Remote Distribution list for Boca')
(ERIC WAREHSE))
FROMLSTID((DEPT48K DLIST) (ALLMGRS DLIST))

This command specifies that four user IDs are added to the distribution list CHICAGO DLIST. The third user ID is in fact a remote distribution list. The fourth user ID (ERIC WAREHSE) defaults to the first description for that user ID. In addition, all of the entries in two distribution lists are added to this distribution list.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF9024
System cannot get correct record to finish operation.

CPF905C
Error occurred trying to find a translation table.

CPF9090
No entries added to distribution list &1 &2.

CPF9091
&1 entries added and &2 lists copied to list &3 &4. &5 entries not added and &6 lists not copied.

CPF9096
Cannot use CMDCHRID(*DEVD), DOCCHRID(*DEVD) in batch job.

CPF9838
User profile storage limit exceeded.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

CPF9846
Error while processing file &1 in library &2.

Top