Who Should Use this Reference

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > About ILE COBOL Language Reference > About ILE COBOL Language Reference

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > About ILE COBOL Language Reference

Who Should Use this Reference
This reference provides information about the ILE COBOL programming language
on the IBM® i (formerly OS/400®) system. It is intended
for people who have a basic understanding of data processing concepts
and of the COBOL programming language.
Before using this reference, you should be familiar with certain IBM i system information: You should be familiar with your display station (also known as
a work station), and its controls. There are also some elements of
its display and certain keys on the keyboard that are standard regardless
of which software system is currently running at the display station,
or which hardware system the display station is hooked up to. Some
of these keys are: Cursor movement keys
Command keys
Field exit keys
Insert and Delete keys
The Error Reset key

You should know how to operate your display station when it is
attached to the IBM i system
and running IBM i software.
This means knowing about the IBM i operating system and
the Control Language (CL) to do such things as: Sign on and sign off the display station
Interact with displays
Use Help
Enter CL commands
Call utilities
Respond to messages

To find out more about this operating system and its control
language, refer to the CL and APIs section of the Programming category
in the IBM i
Information Center.
You can also refer to the CL Programming publication.

You should be familiar with the Data Management topic in
the Information Center, which provides detailed descriptions of the
entries and keywords needed to describe database files and certain
device files external to the user's program.
You should be familiar with the DDS Reference topic in
the Information Center manual, which provides information on using
data management support and allows an application to work with files. The
manual includes information on: Fundamental structure and concepts of data management support
on the system
Data management support for display stations, printers, tapes,
and diskettes, as well as spooling support
Overrides and file redirection (temporarily making changes to
files when an application is run)
Copying files by using system commands to copy data from one place
to another
Tailoring a system using double-byte data

You should know how to call and use certain utilities available
on the IBM i system: The screen design aid (SDA) is used to design and code displays.
This information is contained in ADTS for AS/400:
Screen Design Aid.
The source entry utility (SEU), is a full-screen editor you can
use to enter and update your source and procedure members. This information
is contained in ADTS for AS/400: Source Entry
Utility.
The programming development manager (PDM) utility is a list-processing
tool you can use to work with lists of libraries, objects, members,
and user-defined options. This information is contained in ADTS/400: Programming Development Manager.

You should know how to use the application programming interfaces
(APIs) provided with the IBM i operating
system. This information is contained in the .
You should know how to interpret displayed and printed messages.
This information is contained in the IBM Rational® Development Studio for i: ILE COBOL
Programmer's Guide.
You should be familiar with the concepts and terminology of the Integrated Language Environment®. This information is contained in the ILE Concepts manual.

Parent topic: About ILE COBOL Language Reference