Data type for printer files (position 35)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Define a printer file > Positional entries for printer files (positions 1 through 44)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Define a printer file > Positional entries for printer files (positions 1 through 44)

Data type for printer files (position 35)

You can use this position to specify the data type associated with a field.

The valid entries for this field for a printer file are:

Entry

Meaning

S

Zoned decimal

A

Character

F

Floating point

L

Date

T

Time

Z

Timestamp

Note: The O (open) and G (graphic) support DDS printer files that use double-byte character set (DBCS). The G (graphic) data type also supports DDS printer files that use UTF-16 and UCS-2.
The printer file example in Defining a printer file shows how to code the data type.
If you do not specify a data type and do not duplicate one from a referenced field, the IBM® i operating system assigns a default value as follows:

A (character) if the decimal positions (36 and 37) are blank

S (zoned decimal) if the decimal positions (36 and 37) contain a number in the range 0 through 63

Notes:
Specify 0 in position 37 to indicate an integer numeric field.

Specify F in position 35 for a single precision floating-point field. Use the FLTPCN keyword to specify double precision or to change the precision of an already specified floating-point field.

A floating-point value consists of five parts: (a) the significand sign, (b) the significand, (c) the exponent character (d) the exponent sign, and (e) the exponent. The significand sign is not printed for a positive value. The number of digits in the significand is determined by the length specified (positions 30 through 34). The location of the decimal point or the comma is determined by the decimal positions specified (positions 36 and 37). The exponent character and the exponent sign are always printed. The exponent is always 3 digits.
The printed length for a floating-point field is 7 positions greater than the length specified in positions 30 through 34. The 7 extra positions are for (a) the significand sign, (b) the decimal point or comma, (c) the exponent character, (d) the exponent sign, and (e) the 3 exponent digits.

Date, Time, and Timestamp restrictions: The field length (*DDS positions 30 and 34) for these data types must be blank. The field length is determined by the following rules:
For Date (L), the format specified on the DATFMT keyword dictates the length of the field. If the DATFMT keyword is not specified, then the format is set to *ISO as default, which has a field length of 10.

For Time (T), the format specified on the TIMFMT keyword dictates the length of the field. All formats for the TIMFMT keyword, including the default of *ISO when TIMFMT is not specified, has a field length of 8.

For Timestamp (Z), the field length is 26.

Fields that specify these data types are treated as alphanumeric data when printed. It is up to the application program to provide the data in the correct format and length according to the data type and keywords specified for these fields.
Blank is the only supported value for decimal positions (DDS positions 36 and 37).
Zero suppression is not supported for these data types. EDTCDE and EDTWRD keywords are not valid and the operating system does not perform zero suppression by default as it does for signed-numeric fields.
The following field level keywords are not allowed with these data types.

BARCODE

FLTFIXDEC

BLKFOLD

FLTPCN

DATE

IGCCDEFNT

DFT

IGCCHRRTT

EDTCDE

MSGCON

EDTWRD

PAGNBR

 

TIME