Classes and Categories of Data

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division Overview > Data Relationships > Data Relationships

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division Overview > Data Relationships

Classes and Categories of Data
Most data used in a COBOL program can be divided into classes and categories, except
pointers, procedure-pointers, and index data items. Every
elementary item in a program belongs to one of the classes as well
as one of the categories. Every group item belongs to the alphanumeric
class even if the subordinate elementary items belong to another class
and category. Table 1 shows
the relationship of data classes and categories.
The data category of an item is determined by its PICTURE character-string,
BLANK WHEN ZERO, and USAGE attribute. For details, see Data Categories and PICTURE Rules.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension The data category of an item can also
be determined by its FORMAT clause. A FORMAT clause defines category
date, time, and timestamp items.
Boolean data is an IBM® extension that provides a means
of modifying and passing the values of the indicators associated with
the display screen formats and externally described printer files.
A Boolean value of 0 is the off status of the indicator, and
a Boolean value of 1 is the on status of the indicator.
A Boolean
literal contains
a single 0 or 1, is enclosed in quotation marks, and is immediately
preceded by an identifying B. A Boolean literal is defined as either
B"0" or B"1".
A Boolean character occupies one byte.
When
the figurative constant ZERO is associated with a Boolean data item
or a Boolean literal, it represents the Boolean literal B"0".
The
reserved word ALL is valid with a Boolean literal.
End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension Related Information: Alignment Rules
Standard Data Format
Character-String and Item Size.

Every data item that is an intrinsic function is an
elementary item, and belongs to the category alphanumeric, numeric,
DBCS, national, boolean, date, time, or timestamp and to the corresponding
class; the category of each intrinsic function is determined by the
definition of the function.

Classes and Categories of Data

Parent topic: Data Relationships