Using a Data Area as a Control Specification

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Control Specifications > Control Specifications

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Control Specifications

Using a Data Area as a Control Specification

If a control specification is not present in your
source, the RPG compiler will search for a data area
containing control specification keywords.
If the data area is not found, a default blank
control specification will be used.

Use the CL command CRTDTAARA (Create Data Area) to create a data area
defined as type *CHAR. (See the IBM® i
Information Center
for a description of the Create Data Area command.)
Enter the keywords in the Initial Value parameter
of the command.

For example, to create an RPGLEHSPEC data area that will specify a default
date format of *YMD, and a default date separator /, you would enter:
CRTDTAARA DTAARA(MYLIB/RPGLEHSPEC)
TYPE(*CHAR)
LEN(80)
VALUE('datfmt(*ymd) datedit(*ymd/)')

The data area can be whatever size is required to accommodate the keywords
specified. The entire length of the data area can only contain keywords.

If you are using the Program Verifier in
Rational® Developer
for i,
then a file named RPGLEHSPEC.RPGLE in the .metadata directory
of your workspace will be used
as the control specification data area.
This file must contain valid RPG IV control statements.

Tip:
Instead of using a data area to hold your keywords,
consider using a copy file instead.
When you use a copy file, the keywords in the copy file
are used even
if there are additional control statements in your source.
For example, the following source file will not use
the keywords in a data area, because there is
a Control statement in the source, preventing the
compiler from searching for the data area.

H NOMAIN
D fld S 10A

The following source file will use the keywords
in the DFTCTLKW copy file.

/COPY QRPGLESRC,DFTCTLKW
H NOMAIN
D fld S 10A

Parent topic: Control Specifications