Completing the DDS form

Completing the DDS form

Last Updated: 2025-09-29

You can use the data description specifications
(DDS) form to enter positional and keyword information in the designated
columns.

A sample DDS form is printed in reduced size in Figure 1.
The left side of the DDS form
(positions 1 through 44) is for fixed-format entries called positional entries.
Positional entries define the most common attributes of record formats
and fields, such as names and lengths of fields. For a brief description
of the most important positional entries, see items 1 through 7 following
the figure. For more detailed information about positional entries
for each of the file types, see the following topics:

- Positional entries for physical and logical
files

- Positional entries for display files

- Positional entries for printer files

- Positional entries for ICF files

The right side of the DDS form (positions 45 through 80)
is for DDS keywords. DDS keywords define less-common and more-varied
attributes of files, record formats, and fields; they follow a subset
of the syntax rules for control language. For a brief description
of keyword entries, see item 8 following the figure. For
more detailed information about keyword entries for each of the file
types, see the following topics:

- Keywords for physical and logical files

- Keywords for display files

- Keywords for printer files

- Keywords for ICF files

Figure 1. Overview of the positional entries
and keywords

1

Sequence Number and Form Type are optional in DDS.
The form type identifies the source as DDS source. The entries are
valid for all types of files.

2

An asterisk in position 7 makes the entire line a comment. This
is valid for all types of files. When A (And), or O (Or), or a blank
is in position 7, positions 8 through 16 can provide conditioning
for the DDS on or immediately following the current line. Conditioning
is not valid in physical or logical files.

3

Type of Name or Specification (position 17) identifies
the Name entry (positions 19 through 28) or the specification:

Name entry | Description | Type of file
R | Specifies a record format name | All
blank | Specifies a field name | All
K | Specifies a key field name | Physical and logical only
S | Specifies a select field name | Logical only
O | Specifies an omit field name | Logical only
J | Specifies this as a join specification | Join logical only
H | Specifies this as a help specification | Display only

4

R specified in position 29 indicates that the attributes of the
field in Name (positions 19 through 28) refer to a field specified
elsewhere. This is ignored for logical files.

5

Length, Data Type, and Decimal Positions specify
attributes of named fields within record formats. These are valid
for all types of files.

6

Usage specifies fields as input, output, output/input,
neither input nor output, hidden, message, or program-to-system fields.
Each type of file has its own restrictions regarding field use.

7

Location specifies the location of the field on the display
or printed page. This applies for display and printer files only.

8

Functions specified through the use of keywords apply at
different levels for different file types, as follows:

Keywords apply at this level | For these files
File | All types of files
Record | All types of files
Field | All types of files
Join | Join logical files only
Key field | Physical and logical files
Select or omit field | Logical files only
Help | Display files only

For display and printer files, constants specified within
single quotation marks become the default values for displayed or
printed fields.