CHRID (Character Identifier) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

CHRID (Character Identifier) keyword for display files

You can use this field-level keyword
to specify that a named field be translated if the CHRID parameter
value for the display file differs from the CHRID parameter value
for the workstation.

This can be important when extended alphabetics (characters
such as u with an umlaut or c with a cedilla) are to be displayed
or typed in.
This keyword has no parameters.
If the CHRID
keyword is not specified for a field and the CHRID value for the display
file is not *JOBCCSID, data displayed in that field is displayed in
the character set of the device used to type the data. How the data
is displayed cannot be predicted and depends on how code points used
in the original code page map to the code page used on the device.
The
CHRID keyword is not valid on constant fields, numeric fields (fields
with decimal positions specified in positions 36 through 37), message
fields (M specified in position 38), hidden fields (H specified in
position 38), or program-to-system fields (P in Position 38).
The
CHRID keyword is ignored if the CHRID value for the display file is
*JOBCCSID.
The CHRID keyword cannot be specified with the DUP
(Duplication) keyword.
If you specify the CHRID keyword with
the DFT keyword on a field, the initial (default) value of the field
is not translated, but data entered into that field is translated.
Option
indicators are not valid for this keyword, although option indicators
can be used to condition the field for which it is specified.

ExampleThe following example shows how
to specify the CHRID keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R RECORD1
00020A TITLE 40 1 20CHRID
AThe field TITLE is a named field. With the CHRID
keyword specified, character translation can occur on both output
and input, depending on the conditions described in the Application
Display Programming book.