List of values

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Parameter values > Parameter values

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Parameter values

List of values
A list of values is one or more values that can be
specified for a parameter.
Not all parameters can accept a list of values. A list parameter can
be defined to accept a specific set of multiple values that can be of one
or more types. Values in the list must be separated by one or more blanks.
Each list of values is enclosed by parentheses, indicating that the list is
treated as a single parameter. Parentheses are used even when a parameter
is specified in positional form. To determine whether a list can be specified
for a parameter, and what kind of list it can be, refer to the parameter description
under the appropriate command description.
A list parameter can be defined
to accept a list of multiple like values (a simple list) or a list of multiple
unlike values (a mixed list). Each value in either kind of list is called
a list element. List elements can be constants, variables, or other
lists; expressions are not allowed.
A simple list parameter accepts one or more values of the type
allowed by a parameter. For example, (RSMITH BJONES TBROWN) is a simple list
of three user names.
A mixed list parameter accepts a fixed set of separately defined
values that are in a specific order. Each value can be defined with specific
characteristics such as type and range. For example, LEN(5 2) is a mixed list
in which the first element (5) gives the length of a field and the second
element (2) gives the number of decimal positions in that field.
For many parameters defined to accept lists, predefined single values
can be specified in place of a list of values. One of these single values
can be the default value, which can be either specified or assumed if no list
is specified for a simple or mixed list. To determine what defaults are accepted
for a given list parameter, refer to the description of the parameter in the
description of the command for which the parameter is defined and used. Note: *N
cannot be specified in a simple list, but it can be specified in a mixed list.
Also, individual parameters passed on the CALL and CALLPRC commands cannot
be lists.

The maximum level of nesting of lists inside lists is three, including
the first. These are indicated by three nested levels of parentheses.

Here are examples of lists.
The last two examples contain two lists nested inside a list:
the first list contains values of A and B, and the second list contains values
of 1 and 2. The space between the two nested lists is not required. Blanks
are the separators between the values inside each nested list, and the sets
of parentheses group the nested values into larger lists.

Parent topic: Parameter values

Related reference
CL command parameters