Qualification Rules

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > COBOL Language Structure > Data Reference and Name Scoping > Methods of Data Reference > Qualification > Qualification

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > COBOL Language Structure > Data Reference and Name Scoping > Methods of Data Reference > Qualification

Qualification Rules
The rules for qualifying a name are:
A name can be qualified even though it does not need qualification.
Each qualifier must be of a higher level than the name it qualifies, and must be within the same hierarchy.
For example:
   01 FIELD-A
      02 FIELD-B
         05 SUB1
            07 SUB2
      02 FIELD-C
            07 SUB1

A hierarchy includes all subordinate entries to the next equal or higher level-number. Therefore, in the above example all entries are in the hierarchy of FIELD-A. All entries from FIELD-B to, but not including, FIELD-C are in the hierarchy of FIELD-B.

In the hierarchy of FIELD-A, SUB1 can be used twice; once as subordinate to FIELD-B and once as subordinate to FIELD-C. In references to SUB-1, it must be qualified as SUB-1 OF FIELD-B or SUB-1 OF FIELD-C. Within FIELD-B or FIELD-C, SUB1 cannot be subordinate to itself.

The complete list of qualifiers for one data-name must not be the same as a partial list of qualifiers for another.
If a data-name or a condition-name is assigned to more than one data item, it must be qualified each time it is referred to (for the one exception, see REDEFINES Clause).
If reference can be made unique by qualification, data-names may be defined in more than one place in a given program or compilation unit.
If there is more than one combination of qualifiers that ensures uniqueness, then any of these combinations can be used.
If referenced in the program, a section-name must be unique.
If referenced in the program, a paragraph-name must be unique within a section. When a paragraph-name is qualified by a section-name, the word SECTION must not appear. A paragraph-name need not be qualified when referred to within the section in which it appears.
LINAGE-COUNTER must be qualified each time it is referenced if more than one file description entry containing a LINAGE clause has been specified in the source program.
Library-name must be unique in the system. Therefore, the first 10 characters of library-name must be unique.
Text-name (member-name) can be qualified by the library-name and file-name in which it resides. (A hyphen is required between library-name and file-name, without any intervening spaces.) If no library is specified, the library list is searched. If no file-name is specified, QCBLLESRC is used.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension File-name is optional for the COPY statement, Format 1. If file-name is not specified, the default is QCBLLESRC. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

Parent topic: Qualification