File Section

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division Overview > Data Division Overview

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division Overview

File Section
The File Section describes:
All externally stored files
Each sort-merge file.

file-description-entry
Represents the highest level of organization in the File Section. It
provides information about the physical structure and identification of a
file, and gives the record-name(s) associated with that file.
For the format
and the clauses required in a file description entry, see Data Division—File and Sort Description Entries.

record-description-entry
A set of data description entries that describe the particular record(s)
contained within a particular file, or describe a type-name (by using the
TYPEDEF clause). For the format and the clauses required in a record description
entry, see Data Division—Data Description Entry.
More than one record description entry
may be specified; each entry that does not describe a type-name is an alternative
description of the same record storage area.

Data areas described
in the File Section are not available for processing unless the file containing
the data area is open. Type-names defined in the FILE SECTION may be used
in the WORKING-STORAGE, LOCAL-STORAGE, or LINKAGE SECTIONS to define other
data items.

Group items (including tables) are limited to a length of 16 711 568
bytes.
The initial value of a data item in the File Section is undefined.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension The record description entry for a file can be specified
using the Format 2 COPY statement (DD, DDR, DDS, or DDSR option). This allows
the field descriptions for a record format to be exactly as defined in DDS.
Also, programs are easier to write because the record format description is
maintained in only one place. See Compiler-Directing Statements for further information
on this format of the COPY statement. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

Parent topic: Data Division Overview