Add Device Domain Entry (ADDDEVDMNE)

Add Device Domain Entry (ADDDEVDMNE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: Yes | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Add Device Domain Entry (ADDDEVDMNE) command is used to add a cluster node to the membership list of a device domain. There is no command to create a device domain. The device domain will be created when the first cluster node is added to it. Once the node is a member of a device domain, it can be added to the recovery domain of device cluster resource groups.

This command can be called from a program running on any node in the cluster which has a status of Active.

This command requires that Operating System option 41, HA Switchable Resources, is installed and a valid license key exists on all cluster nodes that will be in the device domain.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority on all nodes in the cluster to run this command.

- This command cannot be called from a cluster resource group exit program.

- The node to be added and at least one current member of the device domain must be Active. On certain conditions, all current members of the device domain must be Active.

- A node can only be a member of one device domain.

- This command will fail if any member of the device domain to which the node being added has a status of Partition.

- The command will fail if it is the first node being added to the device domain and any node in the cluster has a status of Partition.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
DEVDMN | Device domain | Name | Required, Positional 1
NODE | Node identifier | Name, *ALL | Optional, Positional 2
CLUSTER | Cluster | Name, * | Optional

Top

Device domain (DEVDMN)

Specifies the device domain to which the node is being added. If the device domain does not currently exist, it will be created.

This is a required parameter.

name
Specify the name of the device domain to which the node is being added.

Top

Node identifier (NODE)

Specifies the cluster node to be added to the device domain.

This is a required parameter.

*ALL
Add all nodes in the cluster that are not currently in a device domain.

name
Specify the name of the cluster node.

Top

Cluster (CLUSTER)

Specifies the name of the cluster.

*
The cluster that has been configured on this system is used.

name
Specify the name of the cluster.

Top

Examples for ADDDEVDMNE

Example 1: Creating a device domain

ADDDEVDMNE DEVDMN(MYDOMAIN)
NODE(NODE01)

Consider a cluster with a cluster membership list of NODE01, NODE02, and NODE03 and no existing device domains. This command creates the device domain MYDOMAIN and adds node NODE01 to the device domain membership list. Nodes NODE02 and NODE03 do not belong to any device domain.

Example 2: Creating a device domain with all nodes

ADDDEVDMNE DEVDMN(MYDOMAIN)
NODE(*ALL)

Consider a cluster with three nodes NODE01, NODE02, and NODE03 and no existing device domains. This command creates the device domain MYDOMAIN and adds nodes NODE01, NODE02, and NODE03 to the device domain membership list.

Top

Error messages for ADDDEVDMNE

*ESCAPE Messages

HAE0015
Node &1 not added to device domain &2 in cluster &3.

HAE002B
&1 command failed.

Top