Release Distribution Queue (RLSDSTQ)

Release Distribution Queue (RLSDSTQ)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Release Distribution Queue (RLSDSTQ) command releases a distribution queue from held status and allows it to be sent.

Distribution queue names are translated to the graphic character set and code page 930 500, using the job's coded character set identifier (CCSID).

Restrictions:

- This command is shipped with public *EXCLUDE authority, and the QPGMR and QSYSOPR user profiles have private authorities to use the command.

- Messages that report errors about distribution queues may display or print different characters than you entered for the distribution queue name because of internal system transformations. Similarly (depending on the language used for the work station), the internal value for a distribution queue name may differ from the characters shown for the Work with Distribution Queue (WRKDSTQ) command. An error may be reported if the character-string value specified for the Distribution queue prompt (DSTQ parameter) does not match the rules for an internal distribution queue value or if it does not match the internal value for any defined distribution queue (ignoring case differences).

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
DSTQ | Distribution queue | Character value | Required, Positional 1
PTY | Priority | *NORMAL, *HIGH | Required, Positional 2

Top

Distribution queue (DSTQ)

Specifies the name of the distribution queue that is released. The queue must have been previously configured using the Configure Distribution Services (CFGDSTSRV) command or the Add Distribution Queue (ADDDSTQ) command.

This is a required parameter.

Top

Priority (PTY)

Specifies whether the normal priority or high priority portion of the specified queue is released.

The possible values are:

*NORMAL
The normal priority queue is for those distributions with a service level of data low.

*HIGH
The high priority queue is for those distributions with a service level of fast, status, or data high.

Note: This value is not valid for a SystemView distribution services (SVDS) type of distribution queue.

This is a required parameter.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Releasing the Normal Priority Portion of the Queue

RLSDSTQ DSTQ(CHICAGO) PTY(*NORMAL)

This command releases the normal priority portion of the CHICAGO distribution queue.

Example 2: Releasing the High Priority Portion of the Queue

RLSDSTQ DSTQ(ATLANTA) PTY(*HIGH)

This command releases the high priority portion of the ATLANTA distribution queue.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF8802
Distribution queue &1 was not found.

CPF8805
Special value for System name/Group not permitted or not used correctly.

CPF8806
Value &1 not valid for system name or system group.

CPF881C
High priority queue not allowed for *SVDS distribution queue &1

CPF8812
Error occurred while processing distribution queues.

CPF8816
QSNADS communications subsystem is not active.

CPF8817
Distribution queue is held.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

CPF9846
Error while processing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9847
Error occurred while closing file &1 in library &2.

Top