Change Font Resource (CHGFNTRSC)

Change Font Resource (CHGFNTRSC)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Change Font Resource (CHGFNTRSC) command allows you to mark font character sets and code pages as eligible to be captured. Fonts and code pages that are marked with FNTCAPTURE(*YES) are eligible to be captured after downloading on printers that support font capturing. This allows IPDS printers that support font capturing to dynamically capture or cache a host downloaded font which has been marked with font capture *YES. The captured font then appears to Print Services Facility (PSF) like a printer-resident font and remains in the printer even after it has be powered off and then on again. Printing performance is improved by eliminating subsequent font downloads to the printer.

Caution must be used when marking security sensitive fonts as FNTCAPTURE(*YES). It is possible that someone could access the captured font in the printer from another print job on the same system or another print job on a different system if the printer is attached to a LAN.

To use a host font referenced in a print job, you must have authority to the font object and its library on the system regardless if it is marked as eligible to be captured or not.

In addition to marking the font character set and code page, you must also activate font capturing on the printer you are using. To activate font capturing on an IPDS printer, you must specify FNTCAPTURE(*YES) on the CRTPSFCFG or CHGPSFCFG command.

Notes:

- Font character set and code page pairs that are marked as eligible to be captured will be downloaded to printers that do not support font capturing.

- Marking coded fonts is not supported. No change will take effect when attempting to mark a coded font.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
FNTRSC | Font Resource | Qualified object name | Required, Key, Positional 1
Qualifier 1: Font Resource | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
FNTCAPTURE | Capture host fonts at printer | *SAME, *NO, *YES | Optional
FNTRSCDTA | Font resource data | Element list | Optional
Element 1: Graphic character set | 1-65535, *DFT
Element 2: Identifier | 1-65535, *DFT

Top

Font Resource (FNTRSC)

Specifies the font character set or code page to be marked. Marking coded fonts is not supported. No change will take effect when attempting to mark a coded font.

Qualifier 1: Font table

name
Specify the name of the font character set or code page to be marked.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
Search all libraries in the job's library list until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
Search only the current library for the job. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, QGPL is used.

name
Search the specified library.

Top

Capture host fonts at printer (FNTCAPTURE)

Specifies whether the font character set or code page is to be marked as eligible for font capturing.

*SAME
The value for this parameter remains unchanged.

*YES
The font character set or code page is eligible to be captured after downloading to the printer. If the printer does not support font capturing, this information is ignored and the font is downloaded.

*NO
The font character set or code page is not eligible for font capturing. It will also be downloaded to the printer.

Top

Font resource data (FNTRSCDTA)

Specifies the font resource data (graphic character set and identifier the font is to be marked with. For font character sets, the identifier is the font identifier such as 011 for the Courier font. For code pages, the identifier is the code page identifier, such as 500 for the international code page.

Element 1: Graphic character set

*DFT
The graphic character set stored in the font is used for font capturing.

1-65535
Specify the graphic character set for the font character sets or code pages.

Element 2: Identifier

*DFT
The identifier stored in the font is used for font capturing.

1-65535
Specify the identifier for the font character set or code page.

Top

Examples

CHGFNTRSC FNTRSC(QFNT61/X0G16F) FNTCAPTURE(*YES)

This example marks font character set X0G16F in library QFNT61 as eligible for font capturing.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

PQT0109
Font resource &1 in library &2 not changed.

PQT0110
Coded font &1 in library &2 not eligible for font capture.

PQT0111
Font resource &1 not eligible to be captured.

Top