Remove Breakpoint (RMVBKP)

Remove Breakpoint (RMVBKP)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Remove Breakpoint (RMVBKP) command removes one or more breakpoints from the specified program being debugged. It can also remove all breakpoints from all programs in debug mode.

Restrictions:

- You can use this command only in debug mode. To start debug mode, refer to the Start Debug (STRDBG) command.

- You cannot use this command if you are servicing another job, and that job is on a job queue, or is being held, suspended, or ended.

- You cannot use this command to remove breakpoints from a bound program.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
STMT | Statement identifier | Single values: *, *ALL
Other values (up to 10 repetitions): Character value | Optional, Positional 1
PGM | Program | Name, *DFTPGM, *ALL | Optional, Positional 2

Top

Statement identifier (STMT)

Specifies which HLL (high-level language) statements or machine instructions in a program have their breakpoints removed. Breakpoints can be removed from a specified program, the program specified in the Program (PGM) parameter or from the most recent program that has reached a breakpoint, i.e., a value of * specified for the STMT parameter. If a program is specified, one or more statement identifiers can be specified or all the breakpoints can be specified. If a value of * is specified for the STMT parameter, the breakpoint that the most recently stopped program has reached is removed. Also, all breakpoints can be removed from all programs in debug mode.

Single values

*
The most recent breakpoint at which a program is currently stopped is the breakpoint removed.

*ALL
All breakpoints in the specified program are removed.

Other values (up to 10 repetitions)

character-value
Specify the statement identifier to be removed for the program specified by the PGM parameter. No more than 10 identifiers can be specified.

Top

Program (PGM)

Specifies the program from which the specified breakpoints are removed. This parameter can be specified only if a value of * has not been specified for the Statement identifier (STMT) parameter.

*DFTPGM
The default program is the program whose breakpoints are removed.

*ALL
All programs currently in debug mode have their breakpoints removed. This value can be specified only if no value for the STMT parameter has been supplied.

name
Specify the name of the program from which the specified breakpoints are removed.

Top

Examples

RMVBKP STMT(100)

This command removes the breakpoint that is on statement 100 from the default program.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF1999
Errors occurred on command.

Top