select-statement

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > Queries

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries

select-statement
The select-statement is the form of a query that
can be directly specified in a DECLARE CURSOR or FOR statement, prepared
and then referenced in a DECLARE CURSOR statement, or directly specified
in an SQLJ assignment clause. It can also be issued interactively.
In any case, the table specified by a select-statement is
the result of the fullselect.
WITHRECURSIVE,common-table-expressionfullselectupdate-clauseread-only-clauseoptimize-clauseisolation-clauseconcurrent-access-resolution-clause12
RECURSIVE
Indicates that a common-table-expression is
potentially recursive.

common-table-expression
A common-table-expression permits
defining a result table with a table-identifier that
can be specified as a table name in any FROM clause of the fullselect
that follows. Multiple common table expressions can be specified following
the single WITH keyword. Each common table expression specified can
also be referenced by name in the FROM clause of subsequent common
table expressions.
update-clause
The UPDATE clause identifies the columns that can appear
as targets in an assignment clause in a subsequent positioned UPDATE
statement. Each column-name must be unqualified and must identify
a column of the table or view identified in the first FROM clause
of the fullselect. The clause must not be specified if the result
table of the fullselect is read-only.
read-only-clause
The READ ONLY clause indicates that the result table is
read-only; therefore, the cursor cannot be used for positioned UPDATE
and DELETE statements.
optimize-clause
The optimize-clause tells the database manager to
assume that the program does not intend to retrieve more than integer rows
from the result table. Without this clause, or with the keyword ALL,
the database manager assumes that all rows of the result table are
to be retrieved. Optimizing for integer rows
can improve performance. The database manager will optimize the query
based on the specified number of rows.
isolation-clause
The isolation-clause specifies an isolation level
at which the select statement is executed.
concurrent-access-resolution-clause
The concurrent-access-resolution-clause specifies
the concurrent access resolution to use for the statement.
Examples of a select-statement
You can use select-statement in many different ways.

Parent topic: Queries