Configure Distribution Service (CFGDSTSRV)

Configure Distribution Service (CFGDSTSRV)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: Interactive environments (*INTERACT *IPGM *IREXX *EXEC)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Configure Distribution Services (CFGDSTSRV) command changes the configuration of the distribution network. The user can add, change, remove, and display entries from the distribution queues table, the routing table, and the secondary system name table. A detailed description of configuring a distribution network is in the SNA Distribution Services book, SC41-5410.

Restrictions:

- This command is shipped with public *EXCLUDE authority and the QPGMR and QSYSOPR user profiles have private authorities to use the command.

- Before this command is run for the first time, the QSNADS subsystem must be started to create the internal systems network architecture distribution services (SNADS) objects that this command uses.

- Messages that report errors about system names or distribution queues may show or print different characters than the user entered because of internal system transformations. The internal value for a system name or distribution queue may differ from the characters shown by the CFGDSTSRV command depending on the language being used for the work station.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
OPTION | Menu option | *SELECT, 1, 2, 3 | Optional, Positional 1

Top

Menu option (OPTION)

Specifies an option from the Configure Distribution Services menu that bypasses the initial menu and goes directly to the secondary displays. You can specify the distribution queues, the routing table, or the secondary system name table to be specified showing the Configure Distribution Services menu.

The possible values are:

*SELECT
The menu is not bypassed. The option is selected from the Configure Distribution Services menu.

1
The distribution queues function is selected. This function identifies all the distribution queues for systems adjacent to your system.

2
The routing table function is selected. This function describes explicit or default entries for the destination systems in the SNADS network to which distribution queue entries can be routed.

3
The secondary system name table function is selected. This function lists all the names by which your system is known.

Top

Examples

CFGDSTSRV OPTION(1)

This command shows the distribution queues' table entries.

Configuration changes may be made to existing distribution queues, or additional distribution queues may be configured.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF8802
Distribution queue &1 was not found.

CPF8805
Special value for System name/Group not permitted or not used correctly.

CPF8806
Value &1 not valid for system name or system group.

CPF8807
Error occurred while using QSNADS journal.

CPF8809
Errors detected on SNADS internal queues.

CPF8814
Queue &1 not found.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

CPF9846
Error while processing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9847
Error occurred while closing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9850
Override of printer file &1 not allowed.

CPI8854
DSNX error while journaling.

Top