Specifying default message handling for escape messages

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Defining message descriptions > Adding messages to a file > Adding messages to a file

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Defining message descriptions > Adding messages to a file

Specifying default message handling for escape messages
For each message you create that can be sent as an escape message,
you can set up a default message handling action to be used if the message,
when sent, is not handled any other way.
Default message handling actions can consist of:
Default program name. A program to be called that takes default action
to handle a message. The following parameters are passed to the default program:
Call message queue name. This parameter is a structure that consists of
many fields that identify where the system sent the message.
Message reference key (4 characters). The message reference key of the
escape message on the call message queue.

Dump list. A list of message data field numbers (the same numbers as the
substitution variables) that indicate which objects are to be dumped. In
addition, you can dump any of the following items:
The data areas for the job
An internal machine data structure of a job
A job Specifying a dump list for a job is equivalent to specifying
the Display Job (DSPJOB) command with the parameters JOB(*)
OUTPUT(*PRINT).

If you do not specify default actions in message descriptions, you
will get a dump list of the job (as if DSPJOB JOB(*) OUTPUT(*PRINT) was
specified).
The default action specified in a message is taken only
after the message percolation action is completed without the escape message
being handled.

Example: Sending the last diagnostic message as an escape message
This example is a program that sends the last diagnostic message
as an escape message.
Specifying the alert option
On the Add Message Description (ADDMSGD) command,
you can specify an alert option to allow an alert to be created for a message.

Parent topic: Adding messages to a file

Related tasks
CL handling for unmonitored messages

Related information
Message Handling APIs
Exit programs