Work with Directory Entries (WRKDIRE)

Work with Directory Entries (WRKDIRE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: Interactive environments (*INTERACT *IPGM *IREXX *EXEC)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Work with Directory Entries (WRKDIRE) command allows you to work with a set of panels to view, add, change, and remove entries in the distribution directory. When the WRKDIRE command is entered, the system shows either one or all of the entries in the system distribution directory, depending on the parameters specified. If the parameter specified applies to more than one directory entry, the system displays a list of directory entries. If the parameter identifies a specific directory user, the system displays a list of entries for which that user has authority.

Restriction: You must have security administrator authority (*SECADM) to update all entries in the directory. Restrictions on the data entries that can be updated apply when this command is run without *SECADM authority. General access to view and print the directory is provided by the DSPDIRE command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
USRID | User identifier | Single values: *ALL
Other values: Element list | Optional, Positional 1
Element 1: User ID | Character value
Element 2: Address | Character value
USER | User profile | Name, *CURRENT | Optional, Positional 2
CMDCHRID | Command character identifier | Single values: *SYSVAL, *DEVD
Other values: Element list | Optional
Element 1: Graphic character set | Integer
Element 2: Code page | Integer

Top

User identifier (USRID)

Specifies the user ID and the address of user for whom the request is made. If the USRID parameter is specified, the USER parameter cannot be specified.

*ALL
All directory entries in the system distribution directory are shown. The entries are shown in alphabetical order by the user ID and address.

The possible user ID value is:

user-ID
Specify the user ID of the user for whom the directory entry is shown.

The possible user address value is:

user-ID
Specify the user address of the user for whom the directory entry is shown.

Top

User profile (USER)

Specifies, by user profile, which directory entry to display. If the user profile has no directory entries associated with it, an error message is sent. If the USER parameter is specified, the USRID parameter cannot be specified.

*CURRENT
The user profile under which the current job is running is used.

user-profile-name
Specify the user profile of a directory entry shown. This is the 10-character profile used to sign on the system.

Top

Command character identifier (CMDCHRID)

Specifies the character identifier (graphic character set and code page) for data being specified as parameter values on this command. This character identifier (CHRID) is related to the display device used to specify the command. More information about CHRID processing is in the Application Display Programming book, SC41-5715.

*SYSVAL
The system determines the graphic character set and code page values for the command parameters from the QCHRID system values.

*DEVD
The system determines the graphic character set and code page values for the command parameter from the display device description where the command is entered. This option is valid only when specified from an interactive job. If this value is specified in an interactive CL program or a batch job, an error message is sent.

The possible character set value is:

graphic-character-set
Specify the graphic character set values used to create the command parameters. Valid values range from 1 through 9999.

The possible code page value is:

code-page
Specify the code page. Valid values range from 1 through 9999.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Using WRKDIRE with Administrator Authority

WRKDIRE USRID(HURST NEWYORK)

Assume the user who is running this command has administrator authority. If the user ID and address of HURST NEWYORK exists in the directory, the Work with Directory Entries panel is shown listing all entries for HURST NEWYORK.

Example 2: Using WRKDIRE with Security Administrator Authority

WRKDIRE USER(JONES)

Assume the user who is running this command has security administrator authority. If the user profile of JONES exists in the directory, the Work with Directory Entries panel displays the entry with the user profile name of JONES. Multiple entries are displayed if JONES has more than one description.

Example 3: Using WRKDIRE with Security Administrator Authority

WRKDIRE

Assume the user who is running this command has security administrator authority. The Work with Directory Entries panel displays a listing of all entries in the directory.

Example 4: Using WRKDIRE Without Security Administrator Authority

WRKDIRE

Assume the user who is running this command does not have security administrator authority. The Change Your Directory Details panel is displayed for this user. A message appears on the message line of this panel indicating that this user is authorized only to change the user's directory entry.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF9006
User not enrolled in system distribution directory.

CPF905C
Error occurred trying to find a translation table.

CPF9838
User profile storage limit exceeded.

Top