Identifying the base entry by name

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Commands used to send messages from a CL program > Identifying a call stack entry > Identifying a call stack entry

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Commands used to send messages from a CL program > Identifying a call stack entry

Identifying the base entry by name
To identify the base call stack entry, provide the name of the
original program model (OPM) program or Integrated Language Environment® (ILE) procedure that runs in that entry.
The name provided is either a simple name (one part) or a complex name
(two or three parts). Following are descriptions of the simple and complex
names:
Simple name A simple name is used to identify an OPM program or an
ILE procedure. If the simple name you provide is 10 characters or less in
length, it is determined by the system that the name is either an OPM program
or an ILE procedure. The base is identified as the most recently called OPM
program or ILE procedure by that name.
If the name is longer than 10
characters in length, it is determined by the system that the name is for
an ILE procedure (OPM program names cannot be longer than 10 characters).
The base is identified as the entry for the most recently called procedure
by that name. Entries running OPM programs are not considered.
See Figure 1 for an example of sending a message using
a simple name. In this example, CLPROC4 is sending a message to CLPROC2 and
CLPROC2 is sending a message to CLPGM1.

Complex name A complex name consists of two or three parts. They
are:
module name The module name is the name of the module into which the
procedure was compiled.

program name The program name is the name of the program into which
the procedure was bound.

procedure name

When you want to uniquely identify the procedure to which you want
to send the message, a complex name can be used in one of the following combinations:
procedure name, module name, program name
procedure name and module name
procedure name and program name You must specify the module name as
*NONE.

If you use a complex name, the base being identified cannot be running
an OPM program.

See Figure 2 for an example of sending
a message using a complex name. In this example, CLPROC4 is sending a message
to CLPROC1 using a two part name consisting of (procedure name, program name).
Rather than using the full OPM program name or the full ILE procedure name,
you can use partial names. The online command help text provides information
about how to specify partial call stack names. For example, see the Send
Program Message (SNDPGMMSG) command.
Figure 1. Example of using a simple name as a base
Figure 2. Example of using a complex name as a base

Parent topic: Identifying a call stack entry

Related reference
Commands used to send messages from a CL program

Related information
Send Program Message (SNDPGMMSG) command