Messages sent to QSYSMSG message queue

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > QSYSMSG message queue > QSYSMSG message queue

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > QSYSMSG message queue

Messages sent to QSYSMSG message queue
Messages that are sent to the QSYSMSG message queue
can be categorized into these groups: messages sent to the QSYSMSG message
queue instead of QSYSOPR; messages sent to QSYSMSG, QSYSOPR, or both;
and messages always sent to both QSYSMSG and QSYSOPR.
If the QSYSMSG message queue exists, the system sends the following
messages to QSYSMSG instead of QSYSOPR:
CPF1269
CPF1393
CPF1397
CPI2209
CPI9014
CPI96C0 through CPI96C7

The system sends certain messages to QSYSMSG, to QSYSOPR, or to
both QSYSMSG and QSYSOPR, depending on the system reference code (SRC) sent
with the message and whether the SRC is being logged with critical message
handling. These messages include the following.
CPP0DDD
CPP1604
CPPEA02
CPPEA04
CPPEA05
CPPEA12
CPPEA13
CPPEA26
CPPEA32
CPPEA38
CPPEA39

The system sends all other messages in this topic to both QSYSMSG
and QSYSOPR.

CPD4070
Negative response received for remote location &5, device
description &4.
CPF0907
Serious storage condition may exist. Press HELP. This
message is sent if the amount of available auxiliary storage in the system
auxiliary storage pool has reached the threshold value.
The system service
tools function can be used to display and change the threshold value.

CPF097F
Load source disk unit not in valid location.This message
is sent when the load source disk unit is not in a valid location to allow
the system to load the initial program.

CPF1269
Program start request received on communications device was rejected
with reason codes. This message is sent when a start request
is rejected and contains a reason code identifying why the rejection occurred.
If
a password is not valid or an unauthorized condition occurs using APPC, it
may mean that a normal job is in error or that someone is attempting to break
security. You may choose to prevent further use of the APPC device description
until the condition is understood by doing the following:
Sending the message to the QSYSOPR message queue.
Recording the attempt for the security officer to review.
Issuing the End Mode (ENDMOD) command to set the allowed
jobs to zero. This allows jobs that are currently using the peer device description
to remain active, but prevents other jobs from starting until the condition
is understood.
Counting the number of attempts in a given time period. You could establish
a threshold in your program for the number of attempts that were not valid
before you take serious action (such as changing the maximum number of sessions
to zero). You may want to assign this threshold value by unit of work identifier
(which may be blank), by APPC device description, or for your entire APPC
environment.

CPF1393
User profile has been disabled because maximum number of sign-on
attempts has been reached. This message is sent when a user has
attempted to sign on multiple times, causing the User Profile to be disabled.

CPF1397
Subsystem varied off workstation. This message is
sent if the threshold value assigned by the system value QMAXSIGN is reached
and the device is varied off. The message indicates that a user is not entering
a valid password. The message data for CPF1397 contains the name of the device
from which the message was sent. You can use this information and design a
program to take appropriate action. You could consider performing one or several
of the following:
Send the same message to the QSYSOPR message queue
Record the attempt for the security officer to review
Automatically vary on the device after a significant time delay

CPF510E
Network interface &9 failed while doing a read or write to
device &4. The system has detected a network interface failure
and is attempting error recovery for the network interface.
Try the
request again. If the problem occurs again, enter the Analyze Problem
(ANZPRB) command to run problem analysis.

CPF5167
SNA session for remote location &5, device description &4
ended abnormally. The Systems Network Architecture (SNA) session
ended due to a request shutdown (RSHUTD), request recovery (RQR), unbind (UNBIND),
or notify switch off (NOTIFY) command received from the remote controller.
Contact
the remote controller operator to determine why the communications support
ended the session. Correct the error, and try the request again.

CPF5244
Internal system failure for remote location &5, device description &4. Vary
off the device. Vary the device on and try the request again. If the problem
continues, report the problem (ANZPRB command).

CPF5248
SNA protocol violation for data received for remote location &5,
device description &4. The Systems Network Architecture (SNA)
request received for remote location &5, device description &4 violates
SNA protocol. The system received a negative response with sense data &7
to the controller.
Correct the problem in the controller program and
try the request again.

CPF5250
Negative response with sense data &7 received for remote location &5. The
system received a negative response with sense data &7 for remote location &5
device description &4. The first four characters of the data did not begin
with 10xx, 08xx, or 0000. The Systems Network Architecture (SNA) session ended
if it existed.
Correct the error and try the request again. For more
information about sense data and the causes of negative responses, see Systems
Network Architecture Formats, GA27-3136.

CPF5251
Password or user ID not valid for request for remote location &5. A
Systems Network Architecture (SNA) INIT-SELF command was received for finance
remote location &5, device description &4 that did not contain valid
authorization data. One of the following occurred:
The system could not find the user ID or password.
The system could not find the user ID.
The password was not valid for this user ID.
No authorization exists for this user ID to use device description &4.
The user profile was not accessible.
The user ID contained a character that is not valid.

Have the user try the request again with a valid user ID and password.
If the user has no authorization to the device, use the Grant Object
Authority (GRTOBJAUT) command to authorize the user to this device.

CPF5257
Failure for device or member &4 file &2 in library &3. An
error occurred during a read or write operation. If this is a display file,
the display may not be usable.
See the previously listed messages, correct
the errors, and try the request again. If the problem continues, report the
problem (ANZPRB command).

CPF5260
Switched connection failed for device &4 in file &2 in &3. Close
the file and then try the request again.

CPF5274
Error on device for remote location &5 file &2 in &3. The
program attempted an input operation or an output operation to program device &4,
remote location &5 that had a prior error.
Vary off device associated
with remote location &5 and then on again (VRYCFG or WRKCFGSTS command).
Then try the request again.

CPF5341
SNA session not established for remote location &5, device
description &4. The Systems Network Architecture (SNA) session
could not be established. The Synchronous Data Link Control (SDLC) frame size
is not compatible with the request/response unit (RU) size. This is either
a configuration error, or the SDLC frame size has been negotiated to a smaller
value by the i5/OS® operating
system. This occured while the remote controller is using the Exchange Identification
(XID) command.
The MAXLENRU parameter of the device description contains
the specification of the RU size for retail and finance devices.
The
MAXFRAME parameter of the line description contains the SDLC frame size specification.
The MAXFRAME parameter of the controller description also contains the specification
for retail and finance devices.
Do one or more of the following and
try the request again:
Verify that the frame size and the RU size values are compatible.
Increase the SDLC frame size, or decrease the RU size, if necessary.
Verify that this configuration is compatible with the remote controller
configuration.
If you are making configuration changes, you must vary the configuration
off and on before the changes will take effect.

CPF5342
Line &9 failed on device description &4, remote location &5. The
system has detected line failure while processing input or output and is attempting
error recovery for the line.
Try the request again. If the problem continues,
start problem analysis (ANZPRB command).

CPF5344
Error on controller &9, device description &4. The
system has detected a controller failure and is attempting error recovery
for the controller.
Try the request again. If the problem continues,
start problem analysis (ANZPRB command).

CPF5346
Error for remote location &5, device description &4. Close
the file. Vary off the device (VRYCFG command). Look at any system operator
messages in the job log to determine if any action is necessary before you
vary on the device. Correct the error, and vary on the device (VRYCFG command).
Then try the request again. If the problem continues, start problem analysis
(ANZPRB command).

CPF5355
Not able to locate object &7 in &8 of type *&9. Object &7
type *&9 is either being used in another process, is not varied on, or
has no sessions available for advanced program-to-program communications.
Close
file &2. Try the request again when object &7 is available or varied
on. If the object that could not be allocated is for APPC, there were no sessions
available to use. You can change the WAITFILE parameter to allow the system
to wait longer for a session to become available. The mode can also be changed
(MAXSSN parameter) to make more sessions available. The remote system may
also have to configure again to accept a greater number of sessions. If configuration
exists for sufficient sessions, use the CHGSSNMAX command to attempt to increase
the current session limit.

CPF8AC4
Reserved library name &7 in use. A user has created
a library name that is reserved for the QDLS file system. For example, for
user ASP 5, library name QDOC0005 is reserved for the system. The system will
attempt to create this library when the user is trying to create the first
document library object (DLO) on the user ASP. However, if a user has created
their own library using the reserved name QDOC0005, then message CPF8AC4 will
be sent. The user-created library must be deleted or renamed before a DLO
can be created in the user ASP.

CPF9E7C
i5/OS grace period expired. The software license
grace period for i5/OS has
expired. Successful completion of the next initial program load (IPL) requires
a software license key.
Contact your IBM® marketing representative or IBM Business Partner
for a new i5/OS software
license key. Use the Add License Key Information (ADDLICKEY) command
to add the software license key.

CPI091F
PWRDWNSYS &1 command in progress. This message
is sent in a secondary partition, when the primary partition ends abnormally.

CPI0948
Mirrored protection is suspended on disk unit &1; The
system is not able to locate a storage unit. Data has not been lost. The following
information indicates where the system located the storage unit before the
storage unit was missing from the system configuration:
Disk serial number: &5
Disk type: &3
Disk model: &4
Device resource name: &26

Do the following:
Use the system Resource Configuration List display to see the storage
unit that is identified as missing.
Ensure the proper installation of power cable connections on the storage
unit.

CPI0949
Mirrored protection is suspended on disk unit &1; The
mirrored protection for the disk is suspended.

CPI0950
Storage unit now available. A storage unit, which
was missing from the configuration, is now available. Data has not been lost.

CPI0953
ASP storage threshold reached. This message is sent
if the amount of available storage in the specified auxiliary storage pool
(ASP) has reached the threshold value. The message data for CPI0953 contains
the auxiliary storage capacity, the auxiliary storage used, the percentage
of threshold, and the percentage of auxiliary storage available. You can use
this information to take appropriate action.

CPI0954
ASP storage limit exceeded. This message is sent
if all available storage in the specified ASP has been used.

CPI0955
System ASP unprotected storage limit exceeded. This
message is sent if all available storage in the system ASP has been used.

CPI095A
IASP &1 mirror copy storage threshold reached. This
message is sent if the amount of available storage for the mirror copy of
the specified independent auxiliary storage pool (IASP) has reached the threshold
value. The message data for CPI095A contains the independent auxiliary storage
capacity, and the percentage of threshold. You can use this information to
take appropriate action.

CPI0964
Weak battery condition exists. This message is sent
if the external uninterruptible power supply or internal battery indicates
a weak battery condition.

CPI0965
Failure of battery power unit feature in system unit. This
message is sent if there is a failure of the battery or the battery charger
for the battery power unit feature in the system unit.

CPI0966
Failure of battery power unit feature in expansion unit. This
message is sent if there is a failure of the battery or the battery charger
for the battery power unit feature in the expansion unit.

CPI096B
Geographic mirroring is suspended for IASP &1. This
message is sent to indicate that geographic mirroring for the specified independent
auxiliary storage pool (IASP) has been suspended due to an inability to communicate
with the system containing the mirror copy. Check the specified system to
determine if this is an expected situation or if it indicates a communications
problem.

CPI096C
Geographic mirroring is still suspended for IASP &1. This
message is sent to indicate that geographic mirroring for the specified independent
auxiliary storage pool (IASP) is still suspended. This message indicates that
no action has been taken to resume geographic mirroring on an independent
auxiliary storage pool that was previously suspended.

CPI096D
Copy of IASP has been rejected. This message is sent
to indicate that an attempt was made to configure a mirror copy of an independent
auxiliary storage pool (IASP) on the same system that contains the production
copy of that independent auxiliary storage pool (IASP). The mirror copy must
be on a different system

CPI096E
Disk unit connection is missing. This message is
sent to indicate that all the expected connections to an Enterprise Storage
Subsystem (ESS) have not reported in. The following information identifies
the disk unit:
Disk serial number: &5
Disk type: &3
Disk model: &4

This message may indicate that a cable has become disconnected, a
configuration has been changed, or there is a problem. Use the previous disk
unit information to locate the unit in the Hardware service manager service
tool to determine if it is a configuration change or a problem.

CPI0970
Disk unit &1 not operating Disk unit &1 has
stopped operating. No data has been lost. The following information identifies
the disk unit that is not operating:
Disk serial number: &3
Disk type: &5
Disk model: &6
Disk address: &4
IOP resource name: &26
Device controller resource name: &27
Device resource name: &28

Press F14 to run problem analysis.

CPI0988
Mirrored protection is resuming on disk unit &1; This
message is sent if the mirroring synchronization of a disk unit has started
and disk mirroring protection is being resumed. One of the steps the system
performs before disk mirroring protection is resumed is to copy data from
one disk unit to another so that the data on both disk units is the same.
You may observe slow system performance during the time that the data is being
copied. After the copy of the disk data is complete, message CPI0989 is sent
to this message queue, and disk mirroring protection resumes.

CPI0989
Mirrored protection resumed on disk unit &1; This
message is sent if the mirroring synchronization of a disk unit completed
successfully. The system completed the copy of data from one disk unit to
the other. Disk mirroring protection is resumed.

CPI0998
Error occurred on disk unit &1; This message
is sent if errors were found on disk unit &1; the message does not include
information about the failure to run problem analysis.

CPI0999
Storage directory threshold reached. The storage directory
is nearing capacity. This is a potentially serious system condition. The system
repeats this message until it receives an IPL.
You must reduce the amount
of storage that is used on the system. To reduce the amount of storage that
is used, do the following:
Delete objects from the system that are not needed.
Save objects that are not needed online by specifying STG(*FREE) on the
Save Object (SAVOBJ) command.

CPI099C
Critical storage lower limit reached. The amount of
storage that is used in the system auxiliary storage pool has reached the
critical lower limit value. The system will now take the action that is specified
in the QSTGLOWACN system value: &5. The possible actions are:
*MSG — The system takes no further action.
*CRITMSG — The system sends message CPI099B to the user that is specified
by the CRITMSGUSR service attribute.
*REGFAC — The system submits a job to run the exit programs that are registered
for the QIBM_QWC_QSTGLOWACN exit point.
*ENDSYS — The system ends to the restricted state.
*PWRDWNSYS — The system powers down immediately and restarts.

You can reduce use of storage through the following actions:
Delete any unused objects.
Save objects by specifying STG(*FREE)
Save the old unused log versions of QHST and then delete them.
Print or delete spooled files on the system.

Failure to reduce the storage usage may lead to a situation that requires
initialization of auxiliary storage and loss of user data. Use the WRKSYSSTS
command to monitor the amount of storage that is used. Use the PRTDSKINF command
to print information about storage usage. The WRKSYSVAL command can be used
to display and change the auxiliary storage lower limit value (QSTGLOWLMT)
and action (QSTGLOWACN).

CPI099D
System starting in storage restricted state. The system
is being started to the restricted state because the amount of storage available
is below the auxiliary storage lower limit. Failure to reduce storage usage
may lead to a situation that requires initialization of auxiliary storage
and the loss of user data. The console is the only active device.
You
can reduce the use of storage through the following actions:
Delete any unused objects.
Save objects by specifying STG(*FREE).
Save the old unused log versions of QHST and then delete them.
Print or delete spooled files on the system.

Failure to reduce the storage usage may lead to a situation that requires
initialization of auxiliary storage and loss of user data. Use the WRKSYSSTS
command to monitor the amount of storage that is used. Use the PRTDSKINF command
to print information about storage usage. The WRKSYSVAL command can be used
to display and change the auxiliary storage lower limit value (QSTGLOWLMT)
and action (QSTGLOWACN).

CPI099E
Storage lower limit exit program error occurred. An
error occurred while calling a user exit program for exit point QIBM_QWC_QSTGLOWACN.
The reason code is &1. The reason codes and their meanings follow:
An error occurred while running the user exit program.
The system did not find a user exit program.
The system did not find a registered user exit program.
A user exit program did not complete in 30 minutes.
The job running the user exit program ended.
The system did not submit the user exit program job because the system
is ending.
The system did not submit the user exit program job because errors occurred.
The system submitted the user exit program job, but issued warnings as
well.
The system could not retrieve registration information for the exit point.
The system did not submit the user exit program job because the maximum
number of failed exit program jobs was exceeded.
An unexpected error occurred in the user exit program job.

CPI099F
PWRDWNSYS &1 command in progress. This message
is sent in a secondary partition, when the primary partition powers down.

CPI116A
Mirrored protection suspended on the load source disk unit. Suspension
of mirrored protection occurs on disk unit 1. Data has not been lost. Disk
unit 1 is attached to the Multi-Function I/O Processor (MFIOP). Repair the
disk unit as soon as possible. Do not switch off the system, IPL the system,
or perform any operation which would IPL the system until after completing
disk repairs to unit 1.
The following information identifies the unit
that is suspended:
Disk serial number: &5
Disk type: &3
Disk model: &4
Device resource name: &26

The system will automatically resume mirroring after corrections are
made to the error.

CPI116B
Mirrored protection still suspended on the load source disk unit. Mirrored
protection remains suspended on disk unit 1. Data has not been lost. Disk
unit 1 is attached to the Multi-Function I/O Processor (MFIOP). Repair the
disk unit as soon as possible. Do not switch off the system, IPL the system,
or perform any operation which would IPL the system until after repairing
disk unit 1.
The following information identifies the unit that is
suspended:
Disk serial number: &5
Disk type: &3
Disk model: &4
Device resource name: &26

See the previously listed messages in this message queue to determine
the failure that caused suspension of mirrored protection. Perform the recommended
recovery procedures.

CPI116C
Compressed disk unit &1 is full. Compressed disk
unit &1 is temporarily full. The storage subsystem controller has detected
the condition and is repositioning the data on the compressed disk unit. The
system does this to maximize the amount of storable data on the disk unit.
This operation could take a number of minutes to complete. When the storage
subsystem controller has completed the repositioning of the data, the system
will resume normal operations.
The following information identifies
the unit that is full:
Disk serial number: &5
Disk type: &3
Disk model: &4
Device resource name: &26

Wait for the storage subsystem controller to reposition the data
on the compressed disk unit. Do not switch off the system. If you are frequently
receiving this message that indicates that a compressed disk unit is full,
do one or more of the following:
Save objects that are not needed from the auxiliary storage pool by specifying
STG(*FREE) on the Save Object (SAVOBJ) command.
Delete objects that are not needed from the auxiliary storage pool.
Move one or more folders to a different auxiliary storage pool by saving
the folder, deleting the folder, and restoring the folder to a different auxiliary
storage pool.
Increase the storage capacity by adding disk units to the auxiliary storage
pool. You can direct the system to immediately overflow data from the user
auxiliary storage pool into the system auxiliary storage pool. This prevents
you from having to wait for the storage subsystem controller to reposition
the data on the compressed disk unit each time it becomes full. Use the Change
ASP Attribute (CHGASPA) command to change the compression recovery policy
to immediately overflow data to the system auxiliary storage pool whenever
a compressed disk unit becomes full.

CPI116F
Hot spare disk unit not in valid location.This message
is sent when the load source disk unit fails and a hot spare disk unit that
protects the load source disk unit is not in a valid location to allow the
system to load the initial program.

CPI1117
Damaged job schedule &1 in library &2 deleted. This
message is sent when the job schedule in the library was deleted because of
damage.

CPI1136
Mirrored protection still suspended. This message
is sent each hour if mirrored protection is still suspended on one or more
disk units.

CPI1138
Storage overflow recovered. This message is sent
when ASP &1 no longer has any objects that have overflowed into the system
ASP for reason &2;

CPI1139
Storage overflow recovery failed. This message is
sent when an attempt to recover from storage overflow failed.

CPI1153
System password bypass period ended. This message
is sent when the system has been operating with the system password bypass
period in effect. The bypass period has ended. Unless the correct system
password is provided, the next IPL will not be allowed to complete successfully.

CPI1154
System password bypass period will end in &5 days. This
message is sent when the system password (during a previous IPL) was either
not entered or not entered correctly, and the system bypass period was selected.

CPI1159
System ID will expire with &1 more installs. This
message is sent when the system ID is about to expire. The IBM Service Representative
should be contacted.

CPI1160
System ID has expired. This message is sent when
the system identifier has expired. The IBM Service Representative should be contacted.

CPI1161
Unit &1 with device parity protection not fully operational. Unit &1
is part of a disk unit subsystem with device parity protection. Unit &1
requires service. The data has been saved. Reduced performance, machine checks,
and possible data loss can occur if this condition is not corrected.

CPI1162
Unit &1 with device parity protection not fully operational. Unit &1
is part of a disk unit subsystem with device parity protection. Unit &1
is not fully operational for one of the following reasons:
The service representative is repairing the unit.
The unit is not operating, but there is not enough information to run
problem analysis.

CPI1163
No hot spare disk units remain on I/O adapter.This
message is sent when all hot spare disk units on an I/O adapter have been
consumed or have failed. No data has been lost.

CPI1164
Hot spare disk unit not operating.This message is
sent when a hot spare disk unit has stopped operating. No data has been lost.

CPI1165
One or more device parity protected units still not fully operational. One
or more units within disk unit subsystems with device parity protection are
still not fully operational due to errors.

CPI1166
Units with device parity protection fully operational. Units
for all IOP subsystems that provide device parity protection are fully operational.

CPI1167
Temporary I/0 processor error occurred. An error
condition occurred on a I/O processor with disk devices.

CPI1168
Error occurred on disk unit &1; Disk unit number &1
found an error. A damaged object can occur. A machine check can occur if
the problem becomes worse. The following identifies the disk unit.

CPI1169
Disk unit &1 not operating. Disk unit &1
has stopped operating. No data has been lost.

CPI1171
Internal system object cannot be recovered. The internal
system object that contains an index of jobs on the system was damaged. The
system could not recover the object after &1 attempts.
No recovery
action is necessary, but the performance of searching for jobs may be affected.

CPI1468
System work control block table nearing capacity. The
system sends this message when the number of entries in the system job tables
approaches the maximum number allowed. Permitting the job tables to fill completely
may prevent the successful submission of jobs or the completion of the subsequent
IPL.

CPI22AA
Unable to write audit record to QAUDJRN. An unexpected &1
exception occurred at instruction &2 of program QSYSAUDR when attempting
to write an audit record of type &3 to the QAUDJRN audit journal. The
action specified by the Auditing End Action (QAUDENDACN) system value will
be performed.

CPI2209
User profile &1 deleted because it was damaged. This
message is sent when a user profile is deleted because it was damaged. This
user profile may have owned objects before being deleted. These objects now
have no owner. A Reclaim Storage (RCLSTG) command can be used to transfer
the ownership of these objects to the QDFTOWN user profile.

CPI2239
QAUDCTL system value changed to &1. During the
installation, QAUDCTL was changed to *NONE because the security auditing function
was not available. The security auditing function is now available so the
QAUDCTL system value has been changed to its original value.

CPI2283
QAUDCTL system value changed to *NONE. This message
is sent each hour after auditing has been turned off by the system because
auditing failed. To turn auditing back on or to determine why auditing failed,
you can change system value QAUDCTL to a value other than *NONE.

CPI2284
QAUDCTL system value changed to *NONE. This message
is sent during IPL if auditing was turned off by the system because auditing
failed. To turn auditing back on or to determine why auditing failed, you
can change system value QAUDCTL to a value other than *NONE.

CPI8A13
QDOC library nearing save history limit. This message
is sent when the number of objects in library QDOC is approaching the limit
for the number of objects that the system supports storing in one library.

CPI8A14
QDOC library has exceeded save history limit. This
message is sent when the number of objects in Library QDOC has exceeded the
limit for the number of objects that the system supports in one library.

CPI9014
Password received from device not valid. This message
is sent when a password has been received on a document interchange session
that is not correct. It may indicate unauthorized attempts to access the
system.

CPI9490
Disk error on device &25; This message is sent
when a disk error has been detected.

CPI94A0
Disk error on device &25; This message is sent
when a disk error has been detected.

CPI94CE
Error detected in bus expansion adapter, bus extension adapter,
System Processor, or cables. This message is sent when the system
has detected a failure in the main storage. System performance may be degraded.
Run problem analysis to determine the failing card.

CPI94CF
Main storage card failure is detected. This message
is sent when the system has detected a failure in the main storage. System
performance may be degraded. Run problem analysis to determine the failing
card.

CPI94FC
Disk error on device &25; This message is sent
when the 9336 Disk Unit has determined that one of its parts is exceeding
the error threshold and is starting to fail.

CPI96C0
Protected password could not be validated. The system
sends this message when the protected password received for the user profile
by the APPC sign-on transaction program was not correct. This message contains
a reason code that identifies the error. Check the reason code to take appropriate
action.

CPI96C1
Sign-on request GDS variable was not correct. The
system sends this message when the sign-on request GDS variable received by
the APPC sign-on transaction program was not correct. Remote programs have
to send the correct sign-on data.

CPI96C2
User password could not be changed. This messages
is sent if a security problem has occured.

CPI96C3
Message &4 returned on system call. The system
sends this message when a message returns on a system call by the APPC sign-on
transaction program.

CPI96C4
Password not correct for user profile. The system
sends this message when the password specified is not correct.

CPI96C5
User &4 does not exist. The system sends this
message when the received user does not exist on the system.

CPI96C6
Return code &4 received on call to CPI-Communications. The
system sends this message when a call to CPI-Communications has sent a return
code. Refer to the Common Programming Interface Communications Reference manual
to see the return code description and determine why it is failing.

CPI96C7
System failure in the APPC sign-on transaction program. The
system sends this message when receiving an unexpected error. Run problem
analysis to determine the failing.

CPP0DD9
A system processor failure is detected. This message
is sent when a system processor or system processor cache has failed. System
performance may be degraded.

CPP0DDA
A system processor failure is detected in slot 9. This
message is sent when a system processor or system processor cache has failed.
System performance may be degraded.

CPP0DDB
A system processor failure is detected in slot 10. This
message is sent when a system processor or system processor cache has failed.
System performance may be degraded.

CPP0DDC
A system processor failure is detected. This message
is sent when the system has detected an error on the system processor. System
performance may be degraded.

CPP0DDD
System processor diagnostic code detected an error. This
message is sent when a failure has been detected by the system-processor diagnostics
during IPL, but the system is still able to function. System performance may
be degraded.

CPP0DDE
A system processor error is detected. This message
is sent when a control failure is detected on a system processor. Hardware
ECC is correcting the failure. However, if you performed an initial program
load (IPL), control could not be initialized and the system would reconfigure
itself without that processor.

CPP0DDF
A system processor is missing. This message is sent
when a processor is missing on a multi-processor system.

CPP1604
*Attention* Impending DASD failure. Contact your hardware service
provider now. This message is sent when an unrecoverable error
resulting in data loss is about to occur on a disk device.

CPP29B0
Recovery threshold exceeded on device &25; This
message is sent when one of the parts in the 9337 disk unit is starting to
fail.

CPP29B8
Device parity protection suspended on device &25; This
message is sent when one of the parts in the 9337 disk array is failing. Protection
for implementation of RAID 5 technique has been suspended on the disk array.

CPP29B9
Power protection suspended on device &25; This
message is sent when one of the power modules in the 9337 disk array is failing.
Power protection has been suspended on the disk array.

CPP29BA
Hardware error on device &25; This message is
sent when one of the parts in the 9337 disk array has failed. Service action
is required.

CPP951B
Battery power unit fault. This message is sent when
the battery power unit has failed.

CPP9522
Battery power unit fault. This message is sent when
the battery power unit in the 5042 Expansion Unit or 5040 Extension Unit has
failed.

CPP955E
Battery power unit not installed. This message is
sent when the battery power unit in the 9406 System Unit power supply is not
installed.

CPP9575
Battery power unit in 9406 needs to be replaced. This
message is sent when the battery power unit in the 9406 System Unit has failed
and needs to be replaced. It may still work, but more than the recommended
number of charge-discharge cycles have occurred.

CPP9576
Battery power unit in 9406 needs to be replaced. This
message is sent when the battery power unit in the 9406 System Unit has failed
and needs to be replaced. It may still work, but it has been installed longer
than recommended.

CPP9589
Test of battery power unit complete. This message
is sent when testing has been completed for the battery power unit, and the
results have been logged.

CPP9616
Battery power unit not installed. This message is
sent when the battery power unit has not been installed in the 5042 Expansion
Unit or 5040 Extension Unit power supply.

CPP9617
Battery power unit needs to be replaced. This message
is sent when the battery power unit in the 5042 Expansion Unit or 5040 Extension
Unit needs to be replaced. It may still work, but more than the recommended
number of charge-discharge cycles have occurred.

CPP9618
Battery power unit needs to be replaced. This message
is sent when the battery power unit in the 5042 Expansion Unit or 5040 Extension
Unit needs to be replaced. It may still work, but it has been installed longer
than recommended.

CPP961F
DC Bulk Module 3 fault. This message is sent when
the dc bulk module 3 of the 9406 System Unit has failed.

CPP9620
DC Bulk Module 2 fault. This message is sent when
the dc bulk module 2 of the 9406 System Unit has failed.

CPP9621
DC Bulk Module 1 fault. This message is sent when
the dc bulk module 1 of the 9406 System Unit has failed.

CPP9622
DC Bulk Module 1 fault. This message is sent when
the dc bulk module 1 of the 5042 Expansion Unit or 5040 Extension Unit has
failed. Other dc bulk modules can also cause this fault.

CPP9623
DC Bulk Module 2 fault. This message is sent when
the dc bulk module 2 of the 5042 Expansion Unit or 5040 Extension Unit has
failed. Other DC bulk modules can also cause this fault.

CPP962B
DC Bulk Module 3 fault. This message is sent when
the dc bulk module 3 of the 5042 Expansion Unit or 5040 Extension Unit has
failed. Other dc bulk modules can also cause this fault.

CPPEA02
*Attention* Contact your hardware service provider now. This
message is sent when internal analysis of an exception indicates that hardware
service is required now.

CPPEA04
*Attention* Contact your hardware service provider. This
message is sent when internal analysis of an exception indicates that hardware
redundancy has been lost due to a permanent failure.

CPPEA05
*Attention* Contact your hardware service provider. This
message is sent when internal analysis of an exception indicates that data
protection facilities have been lost due to a permanent failure.

CPPEA12
*Attention* Contact your hardware service provider now. This
message is sent when internal analysis of an exception indicates that an I/O
card is operating at a reduced performance level.

CPPEA13
*Attention* Contact your hardware service provider. This
message is sent when internal analysis of exception data indicates that hardware
service is recommended to maintain system performance. It is recommended
that you contact your hardware service provider to have the cache battery
pack of an I/O card replaced. Failure to do so could result in reduced system
performance.

CPPEA26
*Attention* Contact your hardware service provider. This
message is sent when internal analysis of an exception indicates that hardware
service is recommended to maintain system availability.

CPPEA32
Storage subsystem configuration error. This message
is sent when either too many devices or the wrong kind of devices have been
configured under an I/O card.

CPPEA38
*Attention* Contact your hardware service provider now. A system
error has occurred.
CPPEA39
*Attention* Contact your hardware service provider now. A critical
system error has occurred. The system will automatically IPL using redundant
resources.

Parent topic: QSYSMSG message queue

Related information
Backup and recovery
Communications Management PDF
Finance Communications Programming PDF