Text search argument syntax

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > DB2 for i SQL reference

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference

Text search argument syntax
A text search argument is specified when searching for
terms in text documents. It consists of search parameters and one
or more search terms. The SQL scalar text search functions that use
text search arguments are CONTAINS and SCORE.
For information on CONTAINS and SCORE, see CONTAINS and SCORE.
For more information on text search, see OmniFind® Text
Search Server for DB2® for i
Syntaxqualified-clauseoperatorqualified-clauseoperatorANDORqualified-clausemodifierclauseboostmodifier +  - NOTclauseunqualified-termopaque-termboost ^ number
Description A search argument is a term
or sequence of terms, separated by white space, specified when searching
in text documents. It consists of one or more search terms and various
optional search parameters.
To perform a simple search, you can enter one or more
terms. The search engine returns documents that contain all of those
terms or variations of those terms. For example, if you perform a
search on the term king, documents containing king are
returned. By default, the search engine also returns variants of the
search term. Thus, documents containing kings are also
returned. Similarly, when you search on two terms, the search engine
returns documents containing both terms. If you want the terms to
be searched as an exact phrase, simply add quotation marks.
The more specific the search term you use, the more precise
the results. However, you may also want to refine your searches by
using one or more of the following options:
operator
Specifies whether the search for either or both qualified
clauses on either side of the operator must
be satisfied. AND
The search for both qualified clauses on
either side of the operator must be satisfied.
OR
The search for at least one of the qualified clauses on
either side of the operator must be satisfied.

Similar to search conditions in SQL, parentheses
can be used to determine which qualified clauses and operators are
evaluated first. If parentheses are not specified, AND is applied
before OR.

modifier
Each clause can have an occurrence modifier.
If a modifier is not specified for a clause,
the default is plus (+).+
The clause is required in the document.
- or NOT
The clause must not be specified in
the document.
?
The clause is optional in the document.

clause
Specifies a search string. In the search string, the question
mark and asterisk have special meanings. Use a question mark (?)
to represent any single character, and an asterisk (*) to represent
a string of zero or more characters. If the search string contains
multiple words that should be treated as a phrase, include quotation
marks (") around the search string. Blanks within a clause are
ignored.unqualified-term
An unqualified term is simply a term or a phrase. A term can be
a word, such as king; an exact word, such as "king"; or a word that
includes a question mark (?) to represent any single character, and
an asterisk (*) to represent a string of zero or more characters,
such as king* or king?. Similarly, a phrase can be a group of words,
such as cabbages and kings; an exact phrase, such as "The King and
I"; or a phrase that includes a wildcard, such as "all the king's
ho*ses" or "all the king's ?".If a character in clause is
one of the characters that has a special meaning in the syntax of
the search argument, an escape character (\) can be used to indicate
that the subsequent character should be treated as a regular character
in the clause.

opaque-term
An opaque query term is so called because it is
not parsed by the linguistic query parser; opaque terms are identified
by their syntax. The opaque term used for text search queries that
include XML markup is @xmlxp,, for example: @xmlxp:'/TagA/TagB[.
contains("king")]'

boost
boost can be specified for each clause. boost provides
a higher or lower importance to occurrences of the clause.number
Specifies a decimal or integer constant that is greater than 0.
If boost is not specified for a clause,
the default boost value is 1.

NotesCase sensitivity: Searches are not case sensitive,
so a search in Spanish for the exact term "DOS" could return documents
containing DOS or dos.

Examples: Simple text search
The CONTAINS and SCORE functions can be used to perform a simple
text search for a single word or multiple words in a text search index.
Advanced text search operators
You can use advanced text search operators to refine the search
results for the CONTAINS function and the SCORE function.
Example: Using the CONTAINS function and SCORE function
You can use the CONTAINS function or the SCORE function in the
same query to search a text search index and to return if and
how frequently the text document matches the search argument criteria.
XML text search
Based on a subset of the XPath language with
extensions for text search, XML text search allows you to index and
search XML documents so that structural elements can be used separately
or can be combined with free text in queries.
Text search language options
The text search language option specifies which language rules
to use when performing a text search.

Parent topic: DB2 for i SQL reference