Packages and access plans

Packages and access plans

Last Updated: 2025-10-07

A package is an object that contains control structures
used to execute SQL statements.

Packages are produced during distributed program preparation.
The control structures can be thought of as the bound or operational
form of SQL statements.1 All control structures in a package are derived
from the SQL statements embedded in a single source program.

A package can be implicitly created when using three-part naming within a program. The package
is created on the remote system in the library where the original program was created. The use of
this library on the remote system has object ownership and authority implications.

In this book, the term access plan is used in general for
packages, procedures, functions, triggers, and programs or service
programs that contain control structures used to execute SQL statements.
For example, the description of the DROP statement says that dropping
an object also invalidates any access plans that reference the object
(see DROP). This means that any packages,
procedures, functions, triggers, and programs or service programs
containing control structures referencing the dropped object are invalidated.

An invalidated access plan will be implicitly rebuilt the
next time its associated SQL statement is executed. For example, if
an index is dropped that is used in an access plan for a SELECT
INTO statement, the next time that SELECT INTO statement is executed,
the access plan will be rebuilt.

A package can also be created by the Process Extended
Dynamic SQL (QSQPRCED) API. Packages created by the Process
Extended Dynamic SQL (QSQPRCED) API can only be used by
the Process Extended Dynamic SQL (QSQPRCED) API.
They cannot be used at an application server through DRDA protocols. For more information, see the Database and File
APIs information in the Programming category
of the IBM i documentation.

1 For non-distributed SQL programs, non-distributed
service programs, SQL functions, and SQL procedures, the control structures
used to execute SQL statements are stored in the associated space
of the object.