End Communications Server (ENDCMNSVR)

End Communications Server (ENDCMNSVR)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The End Communications Server (ENDCMNSVR) command is used to end the target display station pass-through server or the display station pass-through utilities server. The target display station pass-through server processes display station pass-through, System i5 Access work station function (WSF), and other 5250 emulation programs on programmable workstations. The display station pass-through utilities server can reduce the time required to establish a session.

Restriction: You must have job control (*JOBCTL) special authority to use this command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
SERVER | Server type | *PASTHR, *UTILSVR | Optional, Positional 1
OPTION | How to end | *CNTRLD, *IMMED | Optional, Positional 2
DELAY | Controlled end delay time | 1-86400, *NOMAX | Optional

Top

Server type (SERVER)

Specifies the type of server to be ended.

*PASTHR
The target display station pass-through server, if active, is ended.

*UTILSVR
The display station pass-through utilities server, if active, is ended.

Top

How to end (OPTION)

Specifies whether the target display station pass-through server or the display station pass-through utilities server is ended in an immediate or controlled manner.

*CNTRLD
The server is ended in a controlled manner. Active sessions are allowed to complete their processing. New sessions are not allowed. After the specified period of time elapses, the processing for ENDCMNSVR OPTION(*IMMED) is performed.

*IMMED
The server is ended in an immediate fashion. All active sessions that were started through the target display station pass-through server are ended immediately.

Top

Controlled end delay time (DELAY)

Specifies the amount of time (in seconds) allowed in which to complete a controlled end of the target display station pass-through server. After this period of time all the target display station pass-through server jobs are ended immediately.

*NOMAX
There is no maximum amount of time to wait. The servers will not end until all active sessions end normally.

delay-time
Specify the number of seconds in which the end operation is completed. Valid values range from 1 through 86400 seconds.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Ending Target Display Station Pass-through Server

ENDCMNSVR

This command ends the target display station pass-through server in a controlled manner. Any active sessions that are using the target display station pass-through server are not affected. New sessions are not allowed through the target display station pass-through server. Once all of the active sessions have ended, the target display station pass-through server will end.

Example 2: Ending Display Station Pass-through Utilities Server

ENDCMNSVR SERVER(*UTILSVR)

This command ends the display station pass-through utilities server in a controlled manner. Any active sessions that are using the display station pass-through utilities server are not affected. The time required to establish new sessions may increase.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF8947
Unexpected error ending target display station pass-through servers.

Top