Save Save File Data (SAVSAVFDTA)

Save Save File Data (SAVSAVFDTA)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Save Save File Data (SAVSAVFDTA) command saves the contents of a save file to tape or optical media. This command saves the save data in the save file to the device in a way that allows you to restore objects directly from the device.

A save file containing data created by the Save Licensed Program (SAVLICPGM) command cannot be saved by this command.

The information written on media by this command is similar to the data that was previously written to the save file by the save command that originally created the save file data. This includes the object descriptions, and object contents that existed when the original save operation was done.

This command uses only the save file and device description objects; it does not refer to or modify the description or contents of the objects included in the file save data. Thus, objects included in the save file are not locked during the running of this command, and the save history information (date, place, and time when each object was last saved) is not updated by this command for each object in the save file.

The description of the save file is not included in the save operation (unless it was included with the objects that were saved to create the save data in the file). In addition, this command does not update the save history information for the save file object, so the last save operation date, time, and place always identify the last save operation of the save file object description, not its contents.

Note: This command ignores all file overrides currently in effect for the job, except for the output file.

Restrictions:

- You must have use (*USE) authority for the save file and *USE authority for the tape or optical device description.

- If a tape is used, it must have a standard label.

- The save file cannot be in use by a job running at the time the save operation occurs.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
SAVF | Save file | Qualified object name | Required, Positional 1
Qualifier 1: Save file | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
DEV | Device | Values (up to 4 repetitions): Name | Required, Positional 2
VOL | Volume identifier | Single values: *MOUNTED
Other values (up to 75 repetitions): Character value | Optional, Positional 3
SEQNBR | Sequence number | 1-16777215, *END | Optional
ENDOPT | End of media option | *REWIND, *LEAVE, *UNLOAD | Optional
OPTFILE | Optical file | Path name, * | Optional
USEOPTBLK | Use optimum block | *YES, *NO | Optional
CLEAR | Clear | *NONE, *ALL, *AFTER, *REPLACE | Optional
EXPDATE | File expiration date | Date, *PERM | Optional
COMPACT | Data compaction | *DEV, *NO | Optional
OUTPUT | Output | *NONE, *PRINT, *OUTFILE | Optional
OUTFILE | File to receive output | Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: File to receive output | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
OUTMBR | Output member options | Element list | Optional
Element 1: Member to receive output | Name, *FIRST
Element 2: Replace or add records | *REPLACE, *ADD

Top

Save file (SAVF)

Specifies the save file whose contents are to be saved.

Note: The save file must contain data written by a previous save command or an error message is sent, and its contents are not saved to media.

This is a required parameter.

Qualifier 1: Save file

name
Specify the name of the save file whose contents are to be saved.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the library list for the current thread are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the thread is used to locate the save file. If no current library entry exists in the library list, the QGPL library is used.

name
Specify the name of the library where the save file is located.

Top

Device (DEV)

Specifies the name of the device used for the save operation. The device name must already be known on the system by a device description.

This is a required parameter.

optical-device-name
Specify the name of the optical device used for the save operation.

tape-media-library-device-name
Specify the name of the tape media library device used for the save operation.

tape-device-name
Specify the names of one or more tape devices used for the save operation. If a virtual tape device is used, it must be the only device specified. If multiple tape devices are used, they must have compatible media formats and their names must be specified in the order in which they are used. Using more than one tape device permits one tape volume to be rewound and unloaded while another tape device processes the next tape volume.

Top

Volume identifier (VOL)

Specifies the volume identifiers of the volumes, or the cartridge identifiers of tapes in a tape media library device, on which the data is saved. The volumes must be placed in the device in the same order as specified for this parameter.

Single values

*MOUNTED
The data is saved on the volumes placed in the device. For a media library device, the volume to be used is the next cartridge in the category mounted by the Set Tape Category (SETTAPCGY) command.

Note: This value cannot be specified when using an optical media library device.

Other values (up to 75 repetitions)

character-value
Specify the identifiers of one or more volumes in the order in which they are placed in a device and used to save the data.

Top

Sequence number (SEQNBR)

Specifies, when tape is used, the sequence number to use as the starting point for the save operation.

*END
The save operation begins after the last sequence number on the first tape. If the first tape is full, an error message is issued and the operation ends.

1-16777215
Specify the sequence number of the file to be used for the save operation.

Top

End of media option (ENDOPT)

Specifies the operation that is automatically done on the tape or optical volume after the save operation ends. If more than one volume is used, this parameter applies only to the last volume used; all other volumes are unloaded when the end of the volume is reached.

Note: This parameter is valid only if a tape or optical device name is specified for the DEV parameter. For optical devices, *UNLOAD is the only special value supported, *REWIND and *LEAVE will be ignored.

*REWIND
The tape is automatically rewound, but not unloaded, after the operation has ended.

*LEAVE
The tape does not rewind or unload after the operation ends. It remains at the current position on the tape drive.

*UNLOAD
The tape is automatically rewound and unloaded after the operation ends. Some optical devices will eject the volume after the operation ends.

Top

Optical file (OPTFILE)

Specifies the path name of the optical file that is used for the save operation, beginning with the root directory of the volume.

For more information on specifying path names, refer to "Object naming rules" in the CL topic collection in the Programming category in the IBM i Information Center at http://www.ibm.com/systems/i/infocenter/.

*
The system generates an optical file name in the root directory of the optical volume.

'optical-directory-path-name/*'
The system generates an optical file name in the specified directory of the optical volume.

Top

Use optimum block (USEOPTBLK)

Specifies whether or not the optimum block size is used for the save operation.

Note: Specifying USEOPTBLK(*YES) may result in a tape that can be duplicated only to a device that supports the same block size.

*YES
The optimum block size supported by the device is used for Save commands. If the block size that is used is larger than a block size that is supported by all device types, then:

- Performance may improve.

- The tape file that is created is only compatible with a device that supports the block size used. Commands such as Duplicate Tape (DUPTAP) do not duplicate files unless the files are being duplicated to a device which supports the same block size that was used.

- The value for the DTACPR parameter is ignored.

*NO
The optimum block size supported by the device is not used. Save commands use the default block size supported by all device types. The tape volume can be duplicated to any media format using the Duplicate Tape (DUPTAP) command.

Top

Clear (CLEAR)

Specifies whether active data on the media is automatically cleared or replaced. Active data is any file on the media that has not expired. For saves to tape, clearing active data will make any files on the tape volume beyond the last file written by the save operation no longer accessible. For saves to optical, the files written by the save operation can be automatically replaced while other files on the volume remain active, or all active files can be automatically cleared. Clearing does not erase the data, it just makes the files no longer accessible.

Notes:

- Clearing a tape does not initialize it. You should initialize tapes to a standard label format before the save command is issued by using the Initialize Tape (INZTAP) command and specifying a value for the NEWVOL parameter.

- Clearing an optical volume does initialize it.

- If a volume that is not initialized is encountered during the save operation, an inquiry message is sent and an operator can initialize the volume.

*NONE
None of the media is automatically cleared. If the save operation encounters active data on a tape volume or in a save file, an inquiry message is sent, allowing the operator to either end the save operation or clear the media. If the save operation encounters the specified optical file, an inquiry message is sent, allowing the operator to either end the save operation or replace the file.

*ALL
All of the media is automatically cleared.

If tapes are used and a sequence number is specified for the SEQNBR parameter, the first tape is cleared beginning at that sequence number. All tapes following that first tape are completely cleared. To clear the entire first tape, SEQNBR(1) must be specified.

*AFTER
All media after the first volume is automatically cleared. If the save operation encounters active data on the first tape volume, an inquiry message is sent, allowing the operator to either end the save operation or clear the media. If the save operation encounters the specified optical file on the first volume, an inquiry message is sent, allowing the operator to either end the save operation or replace the file.

*REPLACE
Active data on the media is automatically replaced. Optical volumes are not initialized. Other media is automatically cleared in the same way as the *ALL value.

Top

File expiration date (EXPDATE)

Specifies the expiration date of the file created by the save operation. If a date is specified, the file is protected and cannot be overwritten until the specified expiration date.

Notes:

- This parameter is valid for tape and optical files.

- Specifying this parameter does not protect against a later save operation specifying CLEAR(*ALL).

*PERM
The file is protected permanently.

date
Specify the date when protection for the file ends.

Top

Data compaction (COMPACT)

Specifies whether device data compaction is performed.

*DEV
Device data compaction is performed if the data is saved to tape and all tape devices specified for the Device (DEV) parameter support the compaction feature.

*NO
Device data compaction is not performed.

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether a list with information about the saved objects is created. The information can be printed with the job's spooled output or directed to a database file.

*NONE
No output listing is created.

*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output.

*OUTFILE
The output is directed to the database file specified for the File to receive output (OUTFILE) parameter.

Note: You must specify a database file name for the File to receive output (OUTFILE) parameter when OUTPUT(*OUTFILE) is specified.

Top

File to receive output (OUTFILE)

Specifies the database file to which the output of the command is directed. If the file does not exist, this command creates a database file in the specified library. If the file is created, the public authority for the file is the same as the create authority specified for the library in which the file is created. Use the Display Library Description (DSPLIBD) command to show the library's create authority.

Qualifier 1: File to receive output

name
Specify the name of the database file to which the command output is directed.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
The library list is used to locate the file. If the file is not found, one is created in the current library. If no current library exists, the file will be created in the QGPL library.

*CURLIB
The current library for the thread is used to locate the file. If no library is specified as the current library for the thread, the QGPL library is used.

name
Specify the name of the library to be searched.

Note: If a new file is created, the system uses the IBM-supplied file QASAVOBJ with format name QSRSAV as a model.

Top

Output member options (OUTMBR)

Specifies the name of the database file member to which the output is directed when *OUTFILE is specified for the Output (OUTPUT) parameter.

Element 1: Member to receive output

*FIRST
The first member in the file receives the output. If OUTMBR(*FIRST) is specified and the member does not exist, the system creates a member with the name of the file specified for the File to receive output (OUTFILE) parameter.

name
Specify the name of the file member that receives the output. If OUTMBR(member-name) is specified and the member does not exist, the system creates it.
If the member exists, you can add records to the end of the existing member or clear the existing member and add the records.

Element 2: Replace or add records

*REPLACE
The existing records in the specified database file member are replaced by the new records.

*ADD
The new records are added to the existing information in the specified database file member.

Top

Examples

SAVSAVFDTA SAVF(ONLINE) DEV(TAP01) SEQNBR(1) CLEAR(*ALL)

This command saves the contents of save file ONLINE to the first file on the tape volume on device TAP01. Files that have not ended on either the first tape volume or on subsequent volumes are overwritten without an inquiry message because CLEAR(*ALL) is specified.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF3707
Save file &1 in &2 contains no data.

CPF3709
Tape devices do not support same densities.

CPF3727
Duplicate device &1 specified on device name list.

CPF3728
Device &1 specified with other devices.

CPF3733
&2 &1 in &3 previously damaged.

CPF3767
Device &1 not found.

CPF3768
Device &1 not valid for command.

CPF3782
File &1 in &2 not a save file.

CPF3793
Machine or ASP storage limit reached.

CPF3794
Save or restore operation ended unsuccessfully.

CPF3805
Objects from save file &1 in &2 not restored.

CPF3812
Save file &1 in &2 in use.

CPF3814
No objects from save file &1 in &2 saved to media.

CPF384E
USEOPTBLK(*YES) not valid for CD-ROM premastering.

CPF388B
Optical file path name not valid.

CPF5729
Not able to allocate object &1.

CPF9812
File &1 in library &2 not found.

CPF9822
Not authorized to file &1 in library &2.

CPF9825
Not authorized to device &1.

Top