IGCCNV (DBCS Conversion) keyword

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > Double-byte character set considerations for DDS > Keyword considerations for display files that use DBCS

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > Double-byte character set considerations for DDS > Keyword considerations for display files that use DBCS

IGCCNV (DBCS Conversion) keyword

This file-level keyword enables double-byte character
set (DBCS) conversion in display files, an alternative to directly
typing in DBCS characters from a keyboard.

The format for the keyword is IGCCNV(CFnn line-number).
The
first parameter, CFnn, identifies which command function key, when pressed,
begins and ends the conversion function. Specify any CF key (CF01 through
CF24) as the parameter value. Do not specify a CF key that has already been
assigned a function.
The second parameter, line-number, identifies where
(on the display) the system should place the conversion prompt line. When
you type the alphanumeric word to be converted on the conversion prompt line,
the system displays related DBCS words. The prompt line requires an entire
display line and looks like this: _ ______ _ XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
The
underlined fields (_) are input fields, in which you type the word to be converted
and specify the type of conversion to be performed.
The field indicated
with XXXX is an output field, in which the system displays DBCS words related
to the alphanumeric entry to be converted.
The prompt line can be placed
anywhere on the display, as long as it does not overlap other displayed records
that contain input fields.
Consider the following rules
when using the IGCCNV keyword:
Use this keyword only with files displayed on DBCS display stations.

At least one field in the file must be an input-capable DBCS field, or
an input-capable field specified with the IGCALTTYP keyword.

Avoid using the IGCCNV keyword with the CHECK(ME) keyword. Use of DBCS
conversion with a mandatory-entry field causes operational problems.

Avoid using the IGCCNV keyword with field validation keywords (CHECK,
CMP, RANGE, and VALUES). Using this keyword causes DBCS conversion to work
improperly.

You must define the file for a 24 x 80 display.

Do not display the DBCS conversion format over a format that uses the
USRDFN (user-defined) keyword.

Option indicators are not allowed with this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the IGCCNV keyword on the DDS coding form.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00100A*
00101A*
00102A IGCCNV(CF24 24)
00103A R MENU
AA user can press the F24 key to begin and end DBCS conversion.
Conversion can be used on all input-capable DBCS fields. The conversion format
is displayed on line 24.