Numeric comparisons

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Assignments and comparisons > Assignments and comparisons

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Assignments and comparisons

Numeric comparisons
Numbers are compared algebraically; that is, with regard
to sign. For example, –2 is less than +1.
If one number is an integer and the other number is decimal,
the comparison is made with a temporary copy of the integer that has
been converted to decimal.
When decimal or nonzero scale binary numbers with different
scales are compared, the comparison is made with a temporary copy
of one of the numbers that has been extended with trailing zeros so
that its fractional part has the same number of digits as the other
number.
If one number is floating point and the other is integer,
decimal, or single-precision floating point, the comparison is made
with a temporary copy of the second number converted to a double-precision
floating-point number. However, if a single-precision floating-point
column is compared to a constant and the constant can be represented
by a single-precision floating-point number, the comparison is made
with a single-precision form of the constant.
Two floating-point numbers are equal only if the bit configurations
of their normalized forms are identical.
If one number is DECFLOAT and the other number is integer,
decimal, single precision floating-point, or double precision floating-point,
the comparison is made with a temporary copy of the second number
converted to DECFLOAT.If one number is DECFLOAT(16) and the other
is DECFLOAT(34), the DECFLOAT(16) value is converted to DECFLOAT(34)
before the comparison.
The DECFLOAT data type supports both
positive and negative zero. Positive and negative zero have different
binary representations, but the equal (=) predicate will return true
for comparisons of positive and negative zero.
The DECFLOAT
data type allows for multiple bit representations of the same number.
For example, 2.00 and 2.0 are two numbers that are numerically equal
but have different bit representations. The = (equal) predicate will
return true for a comparison of 2.0 = 2.00. Given that 2.0 = 2.00
is true, 2.0 < 2.00 is false. The behavior that is described here
holds true for all comparisons of DECFLOAT values (such as for UNION,
SELECT DISTINCT, COUNT DISTINCT, basic predicates, IN predicates, MIN, MAX, and so on.) For example: SELECT 2.0 FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY
UNION
SELECT 2.00 FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY
yields
one row of data. For this query, the value (2.0 or 2.00) that is returned
is arbitrary.
The functions COMPARE_DECFLOAT
and TOTALORDER can be used to perform comparisons at a binary level.
For example, for a comparison of 2.0<>2.00. With these functions,
decimal floating-point values are compared in the following order:
-NaN <
-sNaN <
-Infinity <
-0.10 <-0.100 < -0 < 0 < 0.100 < 0.10 < Infinity < sNaN < NaN
The DECFLOAT
data type also supports the specification of positive and negative NaN (quiet and
signaling), and positive and negative Infinity. From
an SQL perspective, infinity = infinity, NaN = NaN, and sNaN = sNaN.
The DECFLOAT data type also supports the specification
of positive and negative NaN (quiet and signaling), and positive and
negative infinity.
The following rules are the comparison rules
for these special values:Infinity compares equal only to infinity of the same sign (positive
or negative)
NaN compares equal only to NaN of the same sign (positive or negative)
sNaN compares equal only to sNaN of the same sign (positive or
negative)

When string and numeric data types are compared, the string
is converted to the numeric data type with the same precision and
scale, and must contain a valid string representation of a number.

Parent topic: Assignments and comparisons