CL programming

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Control language

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language

CL programming
To program using CL, you must understand the
procedures and concepts specific to CL programming.
A CL source program is a set of CL source
statements that can be compiled into either an original program model (OPM)
program or an Integrated Language Environment® (ILE) module.
A CL program or CL procedure is
a group of CL commands that tells the system where to get input, how to process
it, and where to place the results. The program or procedure is assigned a
name by which it can be called by other procedures or bound into a program
and run. As with other kinds of procedures, you must enter, compile, and bind
CL source statements before you can run the program or procedure.
When you enter CL commands individually (from the Command Entry display,
for instance, or as individual commands in an input stream), each command
is separately processed. When you enter CL commands as source statements
for a CL program or procedure, the source remains for later modification if
you choose; the commands are compiled into a module if you use the ILE compiler.
This module remains as a permanent system object that can be bound into other
programs and run. Thus, CL is actually a high-level programming language for
system functions. CL program or procedure ensure consistent processing of
groups of commands. You can perform functions with a CL program or procedure
that you cannot perform by entering commands individually, and the CL program
or procedure provides better performance at run time than the processing of
several separate commands.
CL programs and procedures can be used in batch or interactive processing.
Certain commands or functions are restricted to either batch or interactive
jobs. CL source statements consist of CL commands. You cannot use all CL commands
as CL source statements, and you can use some of them only in CL procedures
or original program model (OPM) programs. CL source statements can be entered
in a database source member either interactively from a workstation or in
a batch job input stream from a device. To create a program using CL source
statements, you must enter the source statements into a database source member.
You can then create an Integrated Language Environment (ILE)
program by compiling the source member into a module and binding the module
into a program object.
CL programs and procedures can be written for many purposes, including:
To control the sequence of processing and calling of other programs or
procedures.
To display a menu and run commands based on options selected from that
menu. This makes the workstation user's job easier and reduces errors.
To read a database file.
To handle error conditions issued from commands, programs or procedures,
by monitoring for specific messages.
To control the operation of an application by establishing variables used
in the application, such as date, time, and external indicators.
To provide predefined functions for the system operator, such as starting
a subsystem or saving files. This reduces the number of commands the operator
uses regularly, and it ensures that system operations are performed consistently.

These are some of the advantages in using CL programs and
procedures for an application:
Because the commands are stored in a form that can be processed when the
program or procedure is created, using programs and procedures is faster than
entering and running the commands individually.
CL programs and procedures are flexible. Parameters can be passed to CL
programs and procedures to adapt the operations performed by the program or
procedure to the requirements of a particular use.
CL programs and procedures can be tested and debugged like other high-level
language programs and procedures.
CL programs and procedures can incorporate conditional logic and special
functions not available when commands are entered individually.
CL procedures can be bound with procedures of other languages.

You cannot use CL programs and procedures for the following
purposes:
To add or update records in database files.
To use printer or ICF files.
To use subfiles within display files.
To use program-described display files.

Process for creating a CL program or CL procedure
All programs are created in steps: source creation, module creation,
and program creation.
Commands used in CL programs or procedures
A CL program or procedure contains only CL commands.
These can be IBM-supplied commands or commands defined by you.
Operations performed by CL programs or procedures
This is an overview of the types of operations
that can be performed by using CL programs or procedures.
Variables in CL commands
A variable is a named changeable value that can be
accessed or changed by referring to its name.
Controlling processing within a CL program or CL procedure
You can use commands to change the flow of logic within your CL
procedure.
Retrieving values that can be used as variables
You can retrieve values, such as system values
and job attributes, to use as variables in a program or procedure.
Note that not every retrievable value is included.
Compiling CL source program
A CL source program must be compiled into a module
and bound into a program before it can be run.
Compiling source programs for a previous release
The Create Control Language Program (CRTCLPGM) command
allows you to compile CL source programs to use on a previous release by using
the target release (TGTRLS) parameter.
Controlling flow and communicating between programs and procedures
The Call Program (CALL), Call Bound
Procedure (CALLPRC), and Return (RETURN) commands
pass control back and forth between programs and procedures.
Communicating between programs and procedures
Programs and procedures can communicate by using data
queues and data areas.
Defining and documenting commands
This information helps you define your own commands
and provide documentation for them.
Command-related APIs
Some application programming interface
programs can be used with commands.
Prompting for user input at run time
With most CL programs and procedures, the workstation
user provides input by specifying command parameter values that are passed
to the program or by typing into input-capable fields on a display prompt.
Entering program source
The programmer menu can be used to enter program
source.
Command analyzer exit points
The exit program registration facility provides two exit points
for the system.
Designing application programs for DBCS data
When you design application programs to process
double-byte data or convert alphanumeric application programs to double-byte
programs, consider this information.
Unicode support in control language
Control language (CL) supports Unicode (UTF-16) parameter values.
With this support, your programs can pass a whole set of Unicode characters
instead of just the job’s EBCDIC set.
Loading and running an application from tape or optical media
The Load and Run Media Program (LODRUN) command
loads and runs an application written by another user or by a software vendor
from tapes or optical media that is supplied by the other user.
Transferring control to improve performance
The Transfer Control (TFRCTL) command calls
the program specified on the command, passes control to it, and removes the
transferring program from the call stack.
Examples: CL programming
These examples demonstrate the flexibility, simplicity, and versatility
of CL programs.

Parent topic: Control language

Related tasks
Using CL or other HLLs for mixed lists