CL threadsafe classification

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL commands > CL command information and documentation > CL command documentation format > CL command documentation format

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL commands > CL command information and documentation > CL command documentation format

CL threadsafe classification
The threadsafe classification indicates whether a command is threadsafe.
Each command has a threadsafe classification.
The three types of threadsafe classifications are as follows:
Threadsafe: Yes This classification indicates that you can safely call
the command simultaneously in multiple threads without restrictions. This
classification also indicates that all functions called by this command are
threadsafe.

Threadsafe: Conditional This classification indicates that not all
functions provided by the command are threadsafe. The Restrictions section
of the command provides information relating to thread safety limitations.
Many commands are classified conditionally threadsafe because either some
underlying system support is not threadsafe or the command can cause an exit
point to be called.

Threadsafe: No This classification indicates that the command is not
threadsafe and should not be used in a multithreaded program. While some thread
unsafe commands may deny access, most thread unsafe commands do not. A diagnostic
message, CPD000D, may be sent to the job log to indicate that a non-threadsafe
command has been called. Whether the diagnostic message CPD000D
is sent to the job log depends on the "multithreaded job action" attribute
of the command; that attribute can be determined by using the Display
Command (DSPCMD) command. The possible values and actions are:
*SYSVAL - Action is based on system value QMLTTHDACN
*RUN - Command runs. No messages are sent.
*MSG - Diagnostic message CPD000D is sent to the job log. The command
runs.
*NORUN - Diagnostic message CPD000D is sent to the job log, and escape
message CPF0001 is sent. The command does not run.

If the command is run, the results are unpredictable.

Note: Some command definition objects shipped as part of the i5/OS® operating
system are not intended to be used as CL commands. For example, the CMD and
PARM command definition objects are used in command definition source. These
special-purpose command objects will not have any Threadsafe information.

Parent topic: CL command documentation format

Related concepts
CL environment classification