HLPRTN (Help Return) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

HLPRTN (Help Return) keyword for display files

You use this file-level or record-level keyword to
return control to your program when you press the Help key.

If HLPRTN is not specified, online help information associated
with the current cursor location is displayed.
See System/36 environment considerations for display files for special considerations when you specify the
HLPRTN keyword in files that are used in the System/36 environment.
The format
of the keyword is: HLPRTN[(response-indicator ['text'])]
If
you specify a response indicator, the response indicator is set on and returned
to your program. No input data is transmitted from the device. Processing
is similar to that of a command attention key.
The optional text is
included on the computer printout created at program compilation time to explain
the intended use of the indicator. This text has no function in the file or
program other than as a comment. The single quotation marks are required.
If you specify more than 50 characters between the single quotation marks,
the text is truncated to 50 characters on the program computer printout.
HLPRTN
at either the file or record level takes priority over any HLPRCD, HLPPNLGRP,
or HLPDOC keywords. Any HLPRTN keyword found in the file is processed before
any other applicable help keyword.
When you specify HLPRTN, control
might or might not return to your program, depending on whether you use an
option indicator:
If you specify HLPRTN without an option indicator, control returns to
your program when you press the Help key. A warning message appears at creation
time if you specify an unoptioned HLPRTN keyword on a file or record containing
H specifications.

If you specify HLPRTN with an option indicator, control returns to your
program if the option indicator is on at the time the record is displayed.
The H specifications are used if the option indicator is off.

Option indicators are valid for this keyword.

Example 1The following example shows how to use
the HLPRTN keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A HELP
A HLPRCD(GENERAL)
A R RECORD1
A 02 HLPRTN
A H HLPARA(1 1 3 10)
A HLPRCD(HELPREC1)
A FIELD1 10A B 2 2
A R RECORD2 HLPRTN
A FIELDA 5A B 10 7
AIf indicator 02 is on when RECORD1 is written to the
display, control will return to the user program when the Help key is pressed.
If indicator 02 is off, online help information record HELPREC1 or GENERAL
will be displayed when the Help key is pressed, depending on the position
of the cursor. When RECORD2 is displayed, control will return to the user
program when the Help key is pressed.

Example 2 |...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A HELP
A 01 HLPRTN
A HLPRCD(GENERAL)
A R RECORD1
A H HLPARA(1 1 3 10)
A HLPRCD(HELPREC1)
A FIELD1 10A B 2 2
A R RECORD2
A FIELDA 5A B 10 7
AIf indicator 01 is on, control returns to your program
when you press the Help key regardless of the cursor position.