DISPLAY-OF

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Intrinsic Functions > Intrinsic Functions

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Intrinsic Functions

DISPLAY-OF
The DISPLAY-OF function returns an alphanumeric character string consisting
of the content of argument-1 converted to a specific code page representation.
The type of the function is alphanumeric.

Format 1: Specify target CCSID

>>-FUNCTION DISPLAY-OF--(--argument-1--+------------+--)-------><
    '-argument-2-'    

argument-1
Must be of class national. Argument-1 identifies the source string for
the conversion.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension argument-2 End of IBM Extension
IBM Extension Must be an integer. Argument-2 identifies the target code page for the
conversion. Argument-2 must be a valid CCSID number identifying an EBCDIC,
ASCII, UTF-8, or EUC code page. The EBCDIC or ASCII CCSID can identify a
code page that is SBCS, DBCS, or mixed SBCS/DBCS. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension
If argument-2 is omitted, the target code page is the one in effect for
the CCSID compiler option when the source code was compiled. If the target
code page in effect is 65535, then default CCSID 37 will be used.
The returned value is an alphanumeric character string consisting of the
characters of argument-1 converted to the target code page representation.
When a source character cannot be converted to a character in the target code
page, the source character is replaced with the system-defined substitution
character X'3F' for a single-byte EBCDIC target code page and X'FEFE' for
a DBCS code page. No exception condition is raised.
The length of the returned value depends on the content of argument-1 and
the characteristics of the target code page.
Exceptions: If the conversion fails, a severe run-time error occurs. Verify that the conversion from the national data (coded using
the UCS-2 CCSID specified in the National CCSID compiler option or in the
NTLCCSID PROCESS option) to the target CCSID is supported on the operating
system.
Usage notes
If the target code page is a mixed SBCS/DBCS EBCDIC code page, the returned
value can include DBCS substrings delimited by shift-out and shift-in control
characters.
The DISPLAY-OF function, with an integer argument-2 specified, can be
used to generate character data represented in a code page that differs from
that specified in the CCSID compiler option. Special care needs to be taken
because subsequent COBOL operations on that data can involve implicit conversions
that assume the data is represented in the EBCDIC code page specified in the
CCSID compiler option.

Format 2: Specify user substitution character

>>-FUNCTION DISPLAY-OF--(--argument-1--argument-3--)-----------><

argument-1
Must be of class national. Argument-1 identifies the source string for
the conversion.
argument-3
Must be a literal or data item of class alphabetic, alphanumeric or
DBCS, with one character position in length. Argument-3 specifies an alphanumeric
or DBCS substitution character used in conversion of national characters for
which there is no corresponding alphanumeric or DBCS character. User substitution
character is only supported for EBCDIC and ASCII code pages. If it is used
for another code page such as EUC, a compiler error message (of severity 30)
will be issued and argument-3 will be ignored.
User substitution character
has the same CCSID as the target code page CCSID in effect. If the target
code page CCSID in effect is double byte, only double byte substitution character
(DBCS) can be specified as argument-3. If the target code page CCSID in effect
is single byte or mixed byte, only single byte substitution character (alphabetic
or alphanumeric) can be specified as argument-3, double byte substitution
character for mixed byte CCSID can not be replaced by user substitution character.
If inconsistency between the target CCSID type and argument-3 class is detected
at compile time, a compiler error message (of severity 30) will be issued;
if inconsistency is detected at runtime, a severe run-time message will be
issued. If user answers the message with 'G' to continue the program, argument-3
will be ignored.

The target code page is the one in effect for the CCSID compiler option
when the source code was compiled. If the CCSID compiler option in effect
is 65535, then default CCSID 37 will be used.
The returned value is an alphanumeric character string consisting of the
characters of argument-1 converted to the target code page representation.
When a source character cannot be converted to a character in the target code
page, the source character is replaced with the user substitution character
argument-3. No exception condition is raised.
The length of the returned value depends on the content of argument-1 and
the characteristics of the target code page.
Exceptions: If the conversion fails, a severe run-time error occurs. Verify
that the conversion from the source ccsid (UCS-2) to the target CCSID is supported
on the operating system.
You
can nest the DISPLAY-OF and NATIONAL-OF intrinsic functions to easily convert from any CCSID to any
other CCSID.
For example, the following code converts an EBCDIC string to an ASCII string:
77 EBCDIC-CCSID PIC 9(4) BINARY VALUE 1140.
77 ASCII-CCSID PIC 9(4) BINARY VALUE 819.
77 Input-EBCDIC PIC X(80).
77 ASCII-Output PIC X(80).
. . .
* Convert EBCDIC to ASCII
Move Function
Display-of
(Function National-of
(Input-EBCDIC EBCDIC-CCSID)
ASCII-CCSID
)
to ASCII-output

Parent topic: Intrinsic Functions