Convert User Certificate (CVTUSRCERT)

Convert User Certificate (CVTUSRCERT)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Convert User Certificate (CVTUSRCERT) command allows converting of user certificates from being stored and mapped locally on the system to using Enterprise Identity Mapping (EIM) for mapping and Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) for storage.

Restrictions:

- You must have all object (*ALLOBJ) and security administrator (*SECADM) special authorities.

- Prior to running this command, the digital ID configuration must have been set using the Set Digital ID Configuration Information (QsySetDigitalIDConfig) API or Digital Certificate Manager (DCM).

- You must have configured this system to participate in an EIM domain.

- You must have set the system connection information using the Set EIM Connect Information (QsySetEIMConnectInfo) API or the EIM configuration GUI.

- For the user profile specified on the command, there must be a target association to an EIM identifier for the local registry that was specified when the system was configured to participate in an EIM domain.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
USRPRF | User profile | Simple name | Required, Positional 1
OPTION | Option | *CVTRMV, *RMV, *CVT | Optional, Positional 2

Top

User profile (USRPRF)

Specifies the user profile whose certificates are to be converted.

This is a required parameter.

simple-name
Specify the user profile name.

Top

Option (OPTION)

Specifies the option to be performed on the user certificate.

*CVTRMV
Convert the mapping information to use EIM and move the certificates themselves into LDAP. The existing certificates and mapping information will be removed from the user profile.

*RMV
Remove the mapping information and certificates from the user profile.

*CVT
Copy the mapping information to EIM and certificates into LDAP. The existing certificates and mapping information will remain in the user profile.

Top

Examples

CVTUSRCERT USRPRF(JOHNSON) OPTION(*CVTRMV)

This command converts all digital certificates for user profile JOHNSON to use EIM for mapping information and LDAP for storing the certificates. The certificates and mapping information currently stored with the user profile will be removed.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF2204
User profile &1 not found.

CPF2213
Not able to allocate user profile &1.

CPF2225
Not able to allocate internal system object.

CPF222E
&1 special authority is required.

CPF4AB9
User certificate function not successful.

Top