Dot matrix

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80) > DFNCHR (Define Character) keyword in printer files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80) > DFNCHR (Define Character) keyword in printer files

Dot matrix

The dot matrix for the 5224 Printer
and 5225 Printer is a matrix of 8 row by 9 column. All 8 rows and 9 columns
are printed regardless of the CPI or LPI settings.

The vertical distance between dots is always 0.352 mm (0.014 inch) regardless
of the LPI setting (LPI parameter on the CRTPRTF command). The LPI setting
determines the space between lines, not the height of characters. At a setting
of 9 lpi (2.82 mm or 0.111 inch for each line), there is no vertical space
between lines if all rows of dots are used. However, the normal character
set does not use the bottom row of dots (line 8) in the matrix, so that even
at 9 lpi there is some space between lines. If you choose, use row 8 to define
your own characters.

The horizontal distance between dots depends on the CPI setting. At 10
CPI, each column is spaced 0.262 mm (0.0111 inches) apart, giving each character
2.54 mm (0.1 inches). At 15 CPI, each column is spaced 0.188 mm (0.0074 inches)
apart, giving each character 1.69 mm (0.0667 inches). The standard character
set does not use columns 1 and 9 (to allow spacing between characters).

You can use columns 1 and 9 to define your own characters with one restriction:
the 5224 Printer and 5225 Printer cannot print two adjacent horizontal dots.
To print two adjacent horizontal dots (such as in a solid underline), the
line must be printed twice. This can be done using a different set of code
points on each pass, one to define the odd dots, and the other to define the
even dots. Both passes occur during one output operation. If your program
attempts to print two adjacent horizontal dots, no error message appears,
but one of the dots is not printed. (The last position of dots in one character
and the first position in the character to its right are considered adjacent
dots.) There is no restriction on adjacent vertical dots.

On any one output operation, each code point represents a single eight-by-nine
matrix. To print characters larger than this requires more than one eight-by-nine
matrix, each one normally defined by a different code point. Overprinting
is also required.

For example, to print a double-wide character, specify a code point for
the left half of the character and another code point for the right half.
Double-high characters require a code point for the top half of the character
and another for the bottom half. On the first line, the top half of all characters
are printed, and on the next line, the bottom half of all characters. You
must specify lpi(9) on the CRTPRTF, CHGPRTF, or OVRPRTF command to avoid a
space between the top and bottom halves. Using DDS, you can define two fields
in one record format, one for the upper half and one for the lower half. Example
2 shows a character two wide by two high.