MLTCHCFLD (Multiple-Choice Selection Field) keyword for display
files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

MLTCHCFLD (Multiple-Choice Selection Field) keyword for display
files

You use this field-level keyword to define
a field as a multiple-choice selection field.

A multiple-choice selection field is a field that contains
a fixed number of choices from which a user can select multiple choices.
The field appears as a vertical or horizontal list of choices, an
input field to the left of each choice, or as a group of check boxes.
If
you see an input field, instead of a check box to the left of each
choice, the selection character default value is a slash (/). Message
CPX5A0C contains the country-designated selection characters. The
value can be changed to allow alternate selection characters for a
multiple-choice selection field. These characters are the allowed
uppercase or lowercase country-designated selection characters. The
characters are defined when the display file is created.
The
format of the keyword is: MLTCHCFLD[([*RSTCSR | *NORSTCSR]
[*NOSLTIND | *SLTIND]
[[(*NUMCOL nbr-of-cols) | (*NUMROW nbr-of-rows)]
[(*GUTTER gutter-width)]])]
Parameters are optional.
If none are specified, the multiple-choice selection field choices
will be arranged in a single vertical column. The user will be allowed
to move the selection cursor out of this field using the arrow keys.
There will be three spaces between choices and selection indicators
will be displayed.
The RSTCSR parameter specifies whether the
arrow keys should be allowed to move the selection cursor outside
of the selection field. *RSTCSR specifies that the
arrow keys will not cause the selection cursor to move outside of
the selection field. *NORSTCSR specifies that the
arrow keys will cause the selection cursor to leave the selection
field. The default is *NORSTCSR.
Note: An exception
to the restrictions imposed by *RSTCSR happens if
the selection field is the only field contained within a pull-down
window. In that case, when the selection cursor is within the leftmost
or rightmost columns, the left and right arrow keys will close the
current pull-down window and open the pull-down window associated
with the menu-bar choice to the left or right of the current menu-bar
choice.
The *RSTCSR parameter is ignored
on displays that are not connected to a controller that supports an
enhanced interface for nonprogrammable workstations.
The SLTIND
parameter indicates whether selection indicators (such as check boxes)
should be displayed. *NOSLTIND specifies that the
selection indicators should not be displayed. The default is *SLTIND.
*NUMCOL specifies
that this selection field should be displayed in multiple columns
with the choices spread across the columns in this manner: choice1 choice2 choice3
choice4 choice5 choice6
choice7 choice8 choice9
The nbr-of-cols portion
of the parameter specifies how many columns the selection field should
contain. Nbr-of-cols must be a positive integer and the entire multiple-choice
selection field must be able to fit on the display when placed in
the specified number of columns.
*NUMROW specifies
that this selection field should be displayed in multiple rows with
the choices spread across the columns in this manner: choice1 choice4 choice7
choice2 choice5 choice8
choice3 choice6 choice9
The nbr-of-rows portion
of the parameter specifies how many rows the selection field should
contain. Nbr-of-rows must be a positive integer and the entire multiple-choice
selection field must be able to fit on the display when placed in
the specified number of rows.
The *GUTTER parameter is optional
and specifies the number of spaces to be placed between each column
of the multiple-choice selection field. It can only be specified if
either *NUMCOL or *NUMROW has been specified and must immediately
follow the (*NUMxxx #) parameter. The gutter-width must be a positive
integer of at least 2. If *GUTTER is not specified, the default of
gutter-width is set to three spaces.
A field containing the
MLTCHCFLD keyword must contain one or more CHOICE and CHCCTL keywords
defining the choices for the field.
The field containing the
MLTCHCFLD keyword must be defined as an input-capable field with the
data type Y and length of two. The position specified for the field
is the position of the input field displayed to the left of the first
choice or of the uppermost check box. If *NOSLTIND is used on the
PULLDOWN keyword and the device is attached to a controller that supports
an enhanced interface for nonprogrammable workstations, the position
is the first character of the text for the first choice. On input,
the field contains the number of the choices selected, or 0 if no
choice was selected. On output, the value of the field is ignored.
Provide
a minimum of two spaces between the end of the previous field and
the position specified for the multiple choice field. This allows
an ending attribute for the previous field, and a beginning attribute
for the multiple choice field. These attributes cannot overlap.
The
following keywords can be specified on a field with the MLTCHCFLD
keyword:

ALIAS
AUTO(RA)
BLANKS
CHANGE
CHCAVAIL
CHCUNAVAIL
CHCSLT1
CHCCTL
CHECK(ER, FE)2
CHOICE

CHGINPDFT
COLOR3
FLDCSRPRG
DSPATR(RI UL BL CS HI ND PC)3
ERRMSG
ERRMSGID
INDTXT
OVRATA
OVRATR
PUTRETAIN
TEXT

Notes:
CHCSLT functions only if the multiple-choice selection field is
displayed in a pull-down menu that does not display selection indicators,
when PULLDOWN(*NOSLTIND) is specified.

Check(FE) applies only to a display attached to a controller that
does not support an enhanced interface.

If the COLOR or DSPATR keyword is specified for a field with the
MLTCHCFLD keyword, it applies only to the input field portion of the
selection field on character-based displays.

Option indicators are not valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how
to specify the MLTCHCFLD keyword:
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A
A R RECORD
A F1 2Y 0B 3 35MLTCHCFLD
A 01 CHOICE(1 '>Undo ')
A CHOICE(2 &MARKTXT);
A CHOICE(3 '>Copy ')
A CHCCTL(1 &CTLONE1 MSG1111 QUSER/A)
A CHCCTL(2 &CTLTWO1 &MSG1 &LIB/&MSGF);
A CHCCTL(3 &CTLTHR1);
A CTLONE1 1Y 0H
A CTLTWO1 1Y 0H
A CTLTHR1 1Y 0H
A MSGF 10A P
A LIB 10A P
A MARKTXT 10A P
AThe CHCCTL keyword is required for each CHOICE
keyword used for the MLTCHCFLD.
On input, the hidden field for
the CHCCTL keyword indicates whether the choice was selected. 0 indicates
the choice was not selected; 1 indicates the choice was selected.
On output, the hidden field controls the availability of the choice,
and is used to set a default selection of a choice. 0 indicates the
choice should be available, 1 indicates the choice should be selected
by default, and 2 indicates the choice is unavailable. Other values,
such as 0, are truncated.