Select list notation

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > subselect > select-clause > select-clause

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > subselect > select-clause

Select list notation

*
Represents a list of columns of table R in the order the columns
are produced by the FROM clause. Any columns defined with the hidden
attribute will not be included. The list of names is established when
the statement containing the SELECT clause is prepared. Therefore,
* does not identify any columns that have been added to a table after
the statement has been prepared.
* cannot be used in the definition of a row permission
or a column mask.
expression
Specifies
the values of a result column. Each column-name in
the expression must unambiguously identify
a column of R. column-name or AS column-name
Names
or renames the result column. The name must not be qualified and does
not have to be unique.

name.*
Represents
a list of columns of name. Any columns defined
with the hidden attribute are not included. The name can
be a table name, view name, or correlation name, and must designate
an exposed table, view, or correlation name in the FROM clause immediately
following the SELECT clause. The first name in the list identifies
the first column of the table or view, the second name in the list
identifies the second column of the table or view, and so on. The
list of names is established when the statement containing the SELECT
clause is prepared. Therefore, * does not identify any columns that
have been added to a table after the statement has been prepared.
name.* cannot be used in the definition of a row
permission or a column mask.

Normally, when SQL statements are implicitly rebound,
the list of names is not reestablished. Therefore, the number of columns
returned by the statement does not change. However, there are four
cases where the list of names is established again and the number
of columns can change:
When an SQL program or SQL package is saved and then restored
on a IBM® i product
that is not the same release as the system from which it was saved.
When SQL naming is specified for an SQL program or package and
the owner of the program has changed since the SQL program or package
was created.
When an SQL statement is executed for the first time after the
install of a more recent release of the IBM i operating system.
When the SELECT * occurs in the fullselect of an INSERT statement
or in a fullselect within a predicate, and a table or view referenced
in the fullselect has been deleted and recreated with additional columns.

The number of columns in the result of SELECT is the same
as the number of expressions in the operational form of the select
list (that is, the list established at prepare time), and cannot exceed
8000. The result of a subquery must be a single expression, unless
the subquery is used in the EXISTS predicate.

Parent topic: select-clause