REVOKE (variable privileges)

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

REVOKE (variable privileges)
This form of the REVOKE statement removes the privileges
on a created global variable.
InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared.
AuthorizationThe privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
For each variable identified in the statement: Every privilege specified in the statement
The system authority of *OBJMGT on the global variable
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the global
variable

Database administrator authority
Security administrator authority

SyntaxREVOKEALLPRIVILEGES,ALTERREADWRITEON VARIABLE,variable-nameFROM,USERGROUPauthorization-namePUBLIC
DescriptionALL or ALL PRIVILEGES
Revokes one
or more global variable privileges from each authorization-name.
The privileges revoked are those privileges on the identified global
variables that were granted to the authorization-names. Note
that revoking ALL PRIVILEGES on a global variable is not the same
as revoking the system authority of *ALL. If you do not use ALL,
you must use one or more of the keywords listed below. Each keyword
revokes the privilege described.

ALTER
Revokes the privilege to use COMMENT
and LABEL statements on the specified global variables.
READ
Revokes the privilege to read the
value of the specified global variables.
WRITE
Revokes the privilege to assign a
value to the specified global variables.
ON VARIABLE variable-name
Identifies
the global variables from which one or more privileges are to be revoked.
Each variable-name must identify a global variable that exists
at the current server.
FROM
Identifies from whom the privileges
are revoked. USER
Specifies that the authorization-name identifies a user
profile. If USER is specified, authorization-name cannot be
a group profile.
GROUP
Specifies that the authorization-name identifies a group
profile. If GROUP is specified, authorization-name cannot be
a user profile.
authorization-name,…
Lists one or more authorization IDs.
Do not specify the same authorization-name more than once.
PUBLIC
Revokes a grant of the privilege
to PUBLIC. For more information, see Authorization, privileges and object ownership.

NotesMultiple
grants: If you revoke a privilege on a variable, it nullifies
any grant of the privilege on that variable, regardless of who granted
it.
Revoking WITH GRANT OPTION: The only way to revoke
the WITH GRANT OPTION is to revoke ALL.
Privilege warning: Revoking a specific privilege
from a user does not necessarily prevent that user from performing
an action that requires that privilege. For example, the user may
still have the privilege through PUBLIC privileges or database administrator authority.
Corresponding system authorities: When a global
variable privilege is revoked, the corresponding system authorities
are revoked. For information on the system authorities that correspond
to SQL privileges see GRANT (variable privileges).
ExampleREVOKE the WRITE privilege on a
global variable MYSCHEMA.MYJOB_PRINTER from user ZUBIRI.
REVOKE WRITE
ON VARIABLE MYSCHEMA.MYJOB_PRINTER
FROM ZUBIRI

Parent topic: Statements