ILE C/C++ Programmer's Guide

IBM i programming resources > ILE C/C++ > Programmer's Guide > Part 3. Debugging Programs > Chapter 12. Using Watches to Aid Debugging

IBM i programming resources > ILE C/C++ > Programmer's Guide > Part 3. Debugging Programs > Chapter 12. Using Watches to Aid Debugging

ILE C/C++ Programmer's Guide
Characteristics and Limitations Of Watches
When using watches, keep the following watch characteristics in mind:

Watches are monitored on a system-wide basis, with a maximum number of 256
watches that can be active simultaneously. This number includes watches
set by the system.
Depending on overall system use, you may be limited in the number of watch
conditions you can set at a given time. If you try to set a watch
condition while the maximum number of active watches across the system is
exceeded, you will receive an error message and the watch condition is not
set.
Note:If a variable crosses a page boundary, two watches are used internally to
monitor the storage locations. Therefore, the maximum number of
variables that can be watched simultaneously on a system-wide basis ranges
from 128 to 256.

Watch conditions can be set only when a program is stopped under debug,
and the variable to be watched is in scope. If this is not the case, an
error message is issued when a watch is requested, indicating that the
corresponding call stack entry does not exist.
Once the watch condition is set, the address of a storage location that is
watched does not change. Therefore, if a watch is set on a temporary
location, it could result in spurious watch-condition notifications.
An example of this is the automatic storage of an ILE C/C++ procedure,
which can be reused after the procedure ends.
A watch condition may be triggered even though the watched variable is no
longer in scope. You must not assume that a variable is in scope just
because a watch condition has been reported.
Two watch locations in the same job must not overlay in any way.
Two watch locations in different jobs must not start at the same storage
address; otherwise, overlap is allowed. If these restrictions are
violated, an error message is issued.
Note:Changes that are made to a watched storage location are ignored if they are
made by a job other than the one that set the watch condition.

Eligible programs are automatically added to the debug session if they
cause the watch-stop condition.
When multiple watch conditions are hit on the same program statement, only
the first one will be reported.
You can set watch conditions when you are using service jobs for
debugging, that is when you debug one job from another job.
If a program in your session changes the content of a watched
storage location and a watch command is successfully run, your application is
stopped and the Display Module Source display is shown.
If the program has debug data and a debug view is available, the
debug data is shown. The source line highlighted is the next statement
to run (after the statement that changed the storage location). A
message indicates which watch condition was satisfied.
Note:If the program cannot be debugged, the text area of the display is
blank.

[ Top of Page | Previous Page | Next Page | Table of Contents ]

(C) Copyright IBM Corporation 1992, 2005. All Rights Reserved.