HELP (Help) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

HELP (Help) keyword for display files

You use this file-level or record-level
keyword to enable the Help key.

See System/36 environment considerations for display files for special
considerations when you specify the HELP keyword in files that are used in
the System/36 environment.
The
format of the keyword is: HELP[(response-indicator ['text'])]
If
you specify a response indicator, the response indicator is set on and returned
to your program. No input data is transmitted from the device. Processing
is similar to that of a command attention key.
The optional text is
included on the listing created at program compilation time to explain the
intended use of the indicator. This text has no function in the file or program
other than as a comment. The single quotation marks are required. If you specify
more than 50 characters between the single quotation marks, the text is truncated
to 50 characters on the program list.
One of the following actions occurs
when the Help key is pressed:
Second level text for a message is displayed if the cursor is located
in a message subfile or on a field which specified either the ERRMSGID or
SFLMSGID keyword.

Online help information associated with either the entire display or an
area on the display. This function is indicated by H specifications (refer
to HLPARA (Help Area) keyword for display files) HLPDOC keyword.

Control is returned to the user's program. This occurs when there are
no H specifications or file-level HLPDOC, HLPPNLGRP, or HLPRCD keywords in
the file.

If this keyword is not specified and the Help key is pressed,
the IBM® i operating system
issues an error message indicating that the Help key is not valid at that
time.
The HLPRTN keyword allows you to use option indicators to select
when online help information is displayed, and when control is returned to
the program.
When a response indicator is specified on the HELP keyword,
no H specifications or HLPRCD, HLPPNLGRP, HLPDOC, or HLPRTN keywords can be
specified in the file.
HELP (with no response indicator) is required
if the file contains H specifications or HLPRCD, HLPPNLGRP, HLPDOC, or HLPRTN
keywords.
Option indicators are valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the HELP keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00024A HELP
A R RECORD1
A