Cycle Module

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > Procedures and the Program Logic Cycle > Program Flow in RPG Modules: Cycle Versus Linear > Program Flow in RPG Modules: Cycle Versus Linear

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > Procedures and the Program Logic Cycle > Program Flow in RPG Modules: Cycle Versus Linear

Cycle Module

A cycle module has a cycle-main procedure which uses
the RPG Program Cycle; the procedure is implicitly specified in the
main source section . (See Program Cycle.) You do not need
to code anything special to define the main procedure; it consists
of everything before the first Procedure specification. The parameters
for the cycle-main procedure can be coded using a procedure
interface and an optional prototype in the global Definition specifications,
or using a *ENTRY PLIST in the cycle-main procedure's
calculations.

The name of the cycle-main procedure must be the same
as the name of the module being created. You can either use this name
for the prototype and procedure interface, or specify this name in
the EXTPROC keyword of the prototype, or of the procedure interface,
if the prototype is not specified.

Any procedure interface found in the global definitions
is assumed to be the procedure interface for the cycle-main
procedure. If a prototype is specified, the name is required for the
procedure interface for the cycle-main procedure, and the prototype
with the matching name must precede the procedure interface in the
source.

In the following example, module CheckFile is created.
Its cycle-main procedure has three parameters:

A file name (input)

A library name (input)

An indicator indicating whether the file was found (output)

In this example, the procedure is intended to be called
from another module, so a prototype must be specified in a /COPY file.

/COPY file CHECKFILEC with the prototype for the cycle-main
procedure:
D CheckFile PR
D file 10a const
D library 10a const
D found 1N

Module CheckFile:
/COPY CHECKFILEC
D CheckFile PI
D file 10a const
D library 10a const
D found 1N
C ... code using parameters file, library and found

Using a *ENTRY PLIST, you would define the parameters this way:
D file S 10a const
D library S 10a const
D found S 1N
C *ENTRY PLIST
C PARM file
C PARM library
C PARM found
C ... code using parameters file, library and found

You can also use a prototype and procedure interface
to define your cycle-main procedure as a program. In this case,
you would specify the EXTPGM keyword for the prototype. In this example,
the program is intended to be called by other RPG programs, so a prototype
must be specified in a /COPY file.

/COPY file CHECKFILEC with the prototype for the program:
D CheckFile PR extpgm('CHECKFILE')
D file 10a const
D library 10a const
D found 1N

In the module source, the procedure interface would be defined
the same way.

In the following example, the program is not intended
to be called by any other RPG programs, so a prototype is not necessary.
In this case, the EXTPGM keyword is specified for the procedure interface.
Since a prototype is not specified, a name is not necessary for the
procedure interface.

A procedure interface with the EXTPGM keyword:
F ... file specifications
D PI extpgm('CUSTREPORT')
D custfile 10a const
D custlib 10a const
... code using the custfile and custlib parameters

Use Caution Exporting Subprocedures in Cycle Modules

Parent topic: Program Flow in RPG Modules: Cycle Versus Linear