Change Cluster Admin Domain (CHGCAD)

Change Cluster Admin Domain (CHGCAD)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: Yes | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Change Cluster Administrative Domain (CHGCAD) command changes an existing cluster administrative domain. The cluster administrative domain provides synchronization of monitored resources across the active nodes in the domain. Synchronization of multiple changes to a monitor resource occurs when a cluster node joins an administrative domain and when the peer cluster resource group (CRG) which represents the cluster administrative domain is started. The synchronization option can be used to indicate how the cluster administrative domain handles changes when an inactive node joins the cluster.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority on all nodes in the recovery domain to run this command.

- This command must run from an active cluster node in the domain node list of the cluster administrative domain.

- This command can only be used with a cluster at cluster version 6 or later.

- The cluster resource group CRG is owned by the QCLUSTER user profile. To use the cluster resource group commands with the cluster administrative domain you will need to be authorized to the cluster resource group and to the QCLUSTER user profile.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
CLUSTER | Cluster | Name | Required, Key, Positional 1
ADMDMN | Cluster administrative domain | Name | Required, Key, Positional 2
SYNCOPT | Synchronization option | *SAME, *LASTCHG, *ACTDMN | Optional

Top

Cluster (CLUSTER)

Specifies the cluster containing the cluster administrative domain to be changed.

This is a required parameter.

name
Specify the name of the cluster.

Top

Cluster administrative domain (ADMDMN)

Specifies the cluster administrative domain to be changed.

This is a required parameter.

name
Specify the name of the cluster administrative domain.

Top

Synchronization option (SYNCOPT)

Specifies the synchronization behavior when a node joins a cluster administrative domain.

- If all changes to monitored resources should be applied to the cluster administrative domain, *LASTCHG should be specified. When a node joins the cluster, the most recent change made to each monitored resource will be applied to all active nodes in the domain. If the most recent change was made on the node that is joining, it will be propagated to the active domain.

- If only changes to monitored resources are allowed from active nodes, the *ACTDMN option should be specified. Changes made to monitored resources on inactive nodes will be discarded when the node joins the domain.

- The *ACTDMN option does not apply to network server storage spaces (*NWSSTG). Synchronization of *NWSSTG resources is always based on the last change made.

*SAME
The synchronization option is not changed.

*LASTCHG
The last change that was made before the node joined the cluster administrative domain is processed by all nodes in the active domain. The last change could have been made in the active domain or on the joining node while it was inactive.

*ACTDMN
Only changes made on active nodes in an active cluster administrative domain are processed. Changes made on a node while it was inactive are not passed to the active domain. When a node joins the cluster administrative domain, it will be synchronized with the values from the active domain.

Top

Examples for CHGCAD

CHGCAD CLUSTER(MYCLUSTER) ADMDMN(MYDOMAIN)
SYNCOPT(*ACTDMN)

This command changes the synchronization behavior of a cluster administrative domain called MYDOMAIN in a cluster called MYCLUSTER. When a node joins MYDOMAIN, any changes made to monitored resources while it was inactive will be discarded and the node will be synchronized with values from the active domain.

Top

Error messages for CHGCAD

*ESCAPE Messages

HAE0003
Cluster administrative domain &1 not changed.

Top