Design of Unicode in control language

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Unicode support in control language > Unicode support in control language

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Unicode support in control language

Design of Unicode in control language
With the Unicode support in control language (CL), the command
processing program (CPP) can always get its data in either extended binary-coded
decimal interchange code (EBCDIC) or UTF-16, regardless of how the data is
passed to CL. This can best be described as having two related parts that
together help you pass Unicode data to your application.
Parameter supportWith the PARM support in CL, you
can specify if you want this parameter viewed as EBCDIC or Unicode. EBCDIC
is the default. By specifying Unicode, the CPP always receives this value
in Unicode, even if it is provided to CL as EBCDIC.

Parser supportThe parser support in CL converts
the provided input, so that the CPP always gets the type of value you specified
in either EBCDIC or Unicode. It can convert Unicode to the job CCSID or convert
the job CCSID to Unicode.
The CPP does not need to identify whether
the input was provided as Unicode, because the CL run time converts the supplied
parameter value to the requested type automatically.
Because of this
support, one CL command can support calls to both Unicode and non-Unicode
data.

How to specify passing Unicode to the CPPThe Unicode
support is an option on the CCSID of value (CCSID) parameter of the Parameter
(PARM) command . This value can be specified only when the TYPE parameter
value is *CHAR or *PNAME. Following are the possible values for the CCSID
parameter:
*JOB
If the command string was originally in Unicode, the value is converted
to the job CCSID. If the original command string was not in Unicode, the
job CCSID is assumed and no conversion is done.
*UTF16
The parameter value is converted to UTF-16. If the original input was
not in Unicode, it is assumed to be in the job CCSID.

Parent topic: Unicode support in control language