Line and Column Combinations

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > DISPLAY Statement > Format 3 – Extended DISPLAY Statement > Format 3 – Extended DISPLAY Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > DISPLAY Statement > Format 3 – Extended DISPLAY Statement

Line and Column Combinations
Certain combinations of line and column numbers have special meaning:
Until the column comes within range, out-of-range column values are reduced
by the line length, and the line value is incremented. A column number, then,
can cause the line number to be incremented several times.
Out-of-range line values cause the screen to scroll up one line. The
effect is the same as if the line number of the bottom line were specified.
The screen is never scrolled up by more than one line, regardless of the
line specified.
If column and line numbers are both out of range, out-of-range columns
are handled first, followed by out-of-range lines (according to the preceding
rules).
If the line and column numbers given are both zero, the DISPLAY operation
starts at the position following the one at which the preceding DISPLAY operation
finished. Column 1 of each line is considered to follow the last column of
the previous line.
If the line number is zero, but the column number is not, the DISPLAY
operation starts at the specified column on the line following the one at
which the preceding DISPLAY operation finished.
If the column number is zero, but the line number is not, the DISPLAY
operation starts on the specified line at the column following the one at
which the preceding DISPLAY operation finished.

identifier-3, integer-2
Identifier-3 must be a PIC 9(4) or a PIC 9(6) field. Integer-2 must
be a 4- or 6-byte numeric field.
If identifier-3 or integer-2 is 4 digits
long, the first two digits specify the line, and the second two digits specify
the column. If identifier-3 or integer-2 is 6 digits long, the first three
digits specify the line, and the second three digits specify the column.

Identifier-3 cannot be a floating-point data item.

Parent topic: Format 3 – Extended DISPLAY Statement