Remove Report (RMVRPTOND)

Remove Report (RMVRPTOND)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Remove Report (RMVRPTOND) command removes the specified report from Content Manager OnDemand.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
APPGRP | Application group | Character value | Required, Positional 1
RPTID | Report ID | Character value | Required, Positional 2
HLDTHLD | Hold threshold | 1-100, *NONE | Optional
INSTANCE | Instance | Character value, *DFT | Optional
STRSVR | Start instance server | *NO, *YES | Optional
STASHFILE | Password stash file | Path name, *NONE | Optional
SBMJOB | Submit to batch | *YES, *NO | Optional
JOBNAME | Remove Report job name | Name, *DFT, *APPGRP | Optional
JOBD | Job description | Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Job description | Name, QOND400
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, QRDARS, *LIBL, *CURLIB

Top

Application group (APPGRP)

Specifies the name of the application group that contains the report to remove.

This is a required parameter.

Note: Position the cursor in the application group parameter entry and use the prompt (F4) key to view the list of application group values that are available for the default (*DFT) instance.

The default instance is specified in the QDFTINST data area. The QDFTINST data area can exist in multiple libraries. A search for the QDFTINST data area is performed by using the library list. The first data area that is found is used. If the QDFTINST data area is not found by using the library list, the QUSRRDARS library is searched for the data area. If the data area exists in the QUSRRDARS library, it is used. If the QDFTINST data area is not found, instance QUSROND is used.

If the value contains lowercase letters, blanks, or special characters, it must be enclosed in single quotation marks.

Top

Report ID (RPTID)

Specifies the report ID of the report to remove.

This is a required parameter.

The report ID is also known as the load ID and is found in the Content Manager OnDemand System Load folder or the System Log folder in the message text for message number 87, both generated when an input file is successfully loaded into the system. The report ID contains the value that Content Manager OnDemand generates to uniquely identify an input file, such as 5547-4-0-2FAA-20130313000000-20130313000000-5548. The report ID contains the following parts:

agid-pri_nid-sec_nid-docid-start_date-stop_date-aid

agid
Application group identifier.

pri_nid
Primary storage node.

sec_nid
Secondary storage node.

docid
Document identifier.

start_date
First date in the report. The format of the date is YYYYMMDDHHMMSS. Loads created with versions of Content Manager OnDemand prior to server version 9.0 use an older, internal date format for this part.

Note: If you do not know the start date, the value of this part can be specified as 0.

stop_date
Last date in the report. The format of the date is YYYYMMDDHHMMSS. Loads created with versions of Content Manager OnDemand prior to server version 9.0 use an older, internal date format for this part.

Note: If you do not know the stop date, the value of this part can be specified as 0.

aid
Application identifier. This part is optional.

Top

Hold threshold (HLDTHLD)

When using Enhanced Retention Management, specifies a threshold value that determines if and when you want Content Manager OnDemand to reload loads during delete processing. The reload retains only the documents in a load that currently have a hold associated with them. Any documents in the load that are eligible for deletion that do not have a hold are deleted. If a high percentage of the documents in the load are held, then reloading the data is not recommended because very little space is reclaimed after the reload. If a low percentage of the documents in the load are held, consider setting the Hold threshold (HLDTHLD) parameter to a value that can cause a reload to occur, which can reduce the space used due to the smaller load size. The reload takes time and system resources, but the result is a smaller load stored in Content Manager OnDemand.

When Content Manager OnDemand processes a load, it calculates the percentage of documents within the load that have a hold. If the percentage of held documents falls below the threshold value specified, Content Manager OnDemand reloads the load and generates a new report ID to identify the smaller load. For example, if you specify HLDTHLD(20), and less than 20 percent of documents in a load have a hold, then Content Manager OnDemand reloads the load.

In a more complex example, you have a load with 100 documents and you specify HLDTHLD(50). When Content Manager OnDemand processes a load, if the percentage of documents with a hold is less than 50 percent, Content Manager OnDemand reloads the load. The following list describes how Content Manager OnDemand functions as the number of documents with holds increases for this example:

- One document has a hold. The actual percentage is 1 percent. Content Manager OnDemand reloads the load. Only one document belongs to the new load.

- Forty nine documents have a hold. Therefore, the actual percentage is 49 percent. Content Manager OnDemand reloads the load. Forty nine documents belong to the new load.

- Fifty documents have a hold. The actual percentage is 50 percent. Content Manager OnDemand does not reload the load.

- Fifty one documents have a hold. The actual percentage is 51 percent. Content Manager OnDemand does not reload the load.

- No documents have a hold. The actual percentage is 0 percent. This is a special case. Even though 0 percent is less than 50 percent, Content Manager OnDemand does not reload the load, because all documents are eligible for deletion, and there would be nothing left to reload.

*NONE
Content Manager OnDemand does not reload any loads.

1 - 100
Specify the percentage of held documents within a load, between 1 and 100 percent, under which a reload of the load is performed.

Top

Instance (INSTANCE)

Specifies the name of the Content Manager OnDemand instance used.

*DFT
The default Content Manager OnDemand instance is used.
The default instance is specified in the QDFTINST data area. The QDFTINST data area can exist in multiple libraries. A search for the QDFTINST data area is performed by using the library list. The first data area that is found is used. If the QDFTINST data area is not found by using the library list, the QUSRRDARS library is searched for the data area. If the data area exists in the QUSRRDARS library, it is used. If the QDFTINST data area is not found, instance QUSROND is used.

instance-name
Specify the name of the instance that is used.

Top

Start instance server (STRSVR)

Specifies to start the instance server if it is not currently active.

*NO
The instance server for this instance is not started.

*YES
The instance server for this instance is started.

Top

Password stash file (STASHFILE)

Specifies the path and file name of the stream file that contains the stashed user profile and password to run the command.

*NONE
A stash file is not used to run the command. The current user profile is used.

path-name
Specify the path and file name of the stream file that contains the stashed user profile and password. The password for the IBM i user profile that is used to run this command is determined from the stash file.

Note: Use the ARSSTASH API with option -a 1 to store the user profile and password in the stash file.

Top

Submit to batch (SBMJOB)

Specifies if you want to remove the specific report interactively or in a batch job.

*YES
This command is submitted to run in a different job.

*NO
This command is run within the current job. If you are entering this command from a 5250 session, this prevents you from doing any other work from this 5250 session until this command completes.

Top

Remove Report job name (JOBNAME)

Specifies the job name for the Remove Report batch job.

*DFT
The job name is RMVRPT.

*APPGRP
The first 10 characters of the application group name that is specified in the APPGRP keyword are used as the job name.

job-name
The name that is specified is used as the job name.

Top

Job description (JOBD)

Specifies the name of the job description used for the submitted job.

Qualifier 1: Job description

QOND400
The QOND400 job description is used as the job description for the submitted job.

jobd-name
Specify the name of the job description used for the job.

Qualifier 2: Library

QRDARS
Library QRDARS is used as the job description's library.

*LIBL
All libraries in the job's library list are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is used to locate the job description name. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, QGPL is used.

library-name
Specify the name of the library where the job description name is located.

Top

Examples for RMVRPTOND

Example 1: Simple Example

RMVRPTOND APPGRP(CHECKSTMTS)
RPTID('1220-1-0-8FAA-20130420120000-20130421120000')

This command submits a job to batch to remove an archived report from the Content Manager OnDemand application group named CHECKSTMTS with the report ID of '1220-1-0-8FAA-20130420120000-20130421120000'. The archived data is removed from the default instance since no instance name is specified.

Example 2: More Complex Example

RMVRPTOND APPGRP(CHECKSTMTS)
RPTID('1220-1-0-8FAA-20130420120000-20130421120000')
INSTANCE(ACCTING) SBMJOB(*NO)

This command is similar to Example 1 but runs interactively and specifies a specific instance from which to remove the archived report.

Top

Error messages for RMVRPTOND

*ESCAPE Messages

OND1338
Errors occurred on SBMJOB command.

OND0222
RMVRPTOND ended in error. The report was not removed.

Top