Trace ASP Balance (TRCASPBAL)

Trace ASP Balance (TRCASPBAL)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Trace ASP Balance (TRCASPBAL) command controls the function that gathers the auxiliary storage pool (ASP) usage statistics. The trace function monitors the frequency that data is accessed on the disk units within the specified ASP. The 'high' use data and the 'low' use data on the units is identified. The tracing of the usage of data on the units can be started on a specific ASP or for multiple ASPs. The trace may be started for a specific length of time. The trace can be stopped by specifying *OFF for the Trace option setting (SET) parameter. The trace can be ended at any time and restarted at a later time. The statistics that are collected are cumulative. For example, if the trace is started and ended and then restarted without clearing the statistics, the second group of statistics are added to the first collection.

After statistics have been collected the ASP may be balanced using the Start ASP Balance (STRASPBAL) command, specifying TYPE(*USAGE) or TYPE(*HSM). After the balance has run to completion, the statistics will be cleared automatically by the balance function.

The balancing of the ASP should be done shortly after the statistics have been collected. The usefulness of the balance is diminished as the trace statistics age. If the statistics are not current, the statistics may be cleared by specifying *CLEAR for the SET parameter.

A message will be sent to the system history (QHST) log when the trace function is turned on, when it is stopped, or the trace data is cleared.

For more information about ASP balancing, see the Hierarchical Storage Management Use, SC41-5351.

Restrictions:

- You must have all object (*ALLOBJ) special authority to run this command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
SET | Trace option setting | *ON, *OFF, *CLEAR | Optional
ASP | ASP number | Single values: *ALL
Other values (up to 32 repetitions): 1-32 | Optional, Positional 1
ASPDEV | ASP device | Single values: *ALLAVL
Other values (up to 32 repetitions): Name | Optional, Positional 2
TIMLMT | Time limit | 1-9999, *NOMAX | Optional

Top

Trace option setting (SET)

Specifies whether to start collecting statistics, end the collection of statistics, or delete previously collected usage statistics for an auxiliary storage pool (ASP).

Note: A value must always be specified for this parameter.

*ON
The tracing of the statistics will be started.

*OFF
The tracing of the statistics will be ended.

*CLEAR
The statistics for the specified ASP will be cleared.

Top

ASP number (ASP)

Specifies the auxiliary storage pool (ASP) for which the ASP tracing function will be started, ended, or cleared.

Note: A value must be specified for either the ASP number (ASP) parameter or the ASP device (ASPDEV) parameter.

Single values

*ALL
ASP tracing will be started, ended, or cleared for the system ASP (ASP number 1) and all basic ASPs (ASP numbers 2-32) defined to the system.

Other values (up to 32 repetitions)

1-32
Specify the number of the ASP for which ASP tracing is to be started, ended, or cleared.

Top

ASP device (ASPDEV)

Specifies the auxiliary storage pool (ASP) device for which the tracing function will be started, ended, or cleared.

Note: A value must be specified for either the ASP number (ASP) parameter or the ASP device (ASPDEV) parameter.

Single values

*ALLAVL
ASP tracing will be started, ended, or cleared for all ASP devices that currently have a status of 'Available'.

Other values (up to 32 repetitions)

name
Specify the name of the independent ASP device for which ASP balancing is to be started.

Top

Time limit (TIMLMT)

Specifies the amount of time, in minutes, that the ASP balancing function will be allowed to run. When the time limit is reached the function will end. The trace function will not run across an IPL.

Note: A value must be specified for this parameter if *ON is specified for the Trace option setting (SET) parameter.

1-9999
Specify the number of minutes that the trace function will be allowed to run.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Start Trace for ASP 1

TRCASPBAL ASP(1) SET(*ON) TIMLMT(9999)

This command allows the user to start the ASP tracing function for ASP 1. This function will run until the user ends the trace or 9999 minutes have passed.

Example 2: End Tracing for All ASPs

TRCASPBAL ASP(*ALL) SET(*OFF)

This command allows the user to end the ASP tracing function for each ASP that currently has a trace running.

Example 3: Clear the Trace Data for ASP 1

TRCASPBAL ASP(1) SET(*CLEAR)

This command allows the user to clear the trace data for ASP 1.

Example 4: End Tracing for All ASP Devices

TRCASPBAL ASPDEV(*ALLAVL) SET(*OFF)

This command allows the user to end the ASP tracing function for each ASP device that currently has a trace running.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF1890
*ALLOBJ authority required for requested operation.

CPF18B2
Balance function running for ASP &1 with name &2.

CPF9829
Auxiliary storage pool &1 not found.

CPF9899
Error occurred during processing of command.

Top