Programming for the Dup key

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80) > DUP (Duplication) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80) > DUP (Duplication) keyword for display files

Programming for the Dup key

The system follows this procedure of duplicating entire
fields.

When you press
the Dup key, the IBM® i operating
system handles the field as follows:

If the field is a character field, the data displayed in the field is
returned to your program as is. A hex 1C is placed at the cursor position
and in the remaining field positions to the right. (Hex 1C appears as an over-scored
asterisk on the display.) The response indicator, if specified, is set on.

If the field is a numeric field and you specify a response indicator,
a hex F0 is placed at the cursor position and in the remaining field positions.
The response indicator is set on and returned to your program. If a response
indicator is not specified, hex 1Cs are returned to your program.

In your program, you can duplicate entire fields (either character
or numeric) with the following procedure:

Specify two fields for each input-capable field on the display
in DDS.

Specify one field as an input-capable field. For this field,
specify DUP with a response indicator. You might want to specify
DUP with an option indicator that is off on the first display of the field.
This prevents the workstation user from using the Dup key when the field is
first displayed.

Specify the other field as a hidden field (H in position 38).

On the first output operation, set off an option indicator for
DUP. This prevents the workstation user from using the Dup key.

On the first input operation, move the input-capable
field to the hidden field. This saves the typed value for later
use.

On each subsequent output operation, set the
option indicator on for the DUP keyword. This allows the workstation
user to use the Dup key.

On each subsequent input operation, test the
response indicator specified with DUP. If the response indicator is off, the
input data should be moved to the hidden field. If the response indicator
is on, you can use the existing value in the hidden field. Note: When
using the DUP keyword in a subfile, an update operation should be performed
after steps 3 and 5 to store the value of
the hidden field into the subfile. This will be returned on the next read
of that subfile record.

Repeat steps 4 and 5 for subsequent data
entry using the Dup key.

You can also duplicate character fields one character at a time
by saving them in arrays, then moving the array one character at a time and
checking for the DUP key indication of hex 1C.
You can achieve duplication
of numeric fields one digit at a time by defining the field as character and
eventually moving it to your numeric field after the hex 1Cs have been removed.
You can test whether the Dup key has been pressed:
For numeric fields, a response indicator is required.

For character fields, a response indicator is optional.

The field will contain hex 1C at the cursor position and in the
remaining positions if the Dup key has been pressed.