Start CHT Server (STRCHTSVR)

Start CHT Server (STRCHTSVR)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Start Clustered Hash Table Server (STRCHTSVR) command is used to define a clustered hash table server on each cluster node specified in the NODE parameter. Successful completion of this command results in a job being started on each node defined in the cluster. Each node specified on the NODE parameter will be in the clustered hash table servers domain.

The clustered hash table server enables sharing and replicating data between cluster nodes using the Clustered Hash Table APIs. The data is stored within the clustered hash table server in non-persistent storage.

You can use the End Clustered Hash Table Server (ENDCHTSVR) command to end the clustered hash table server.

Restrictions:

- Cluster Resource Service must be active on the local node.

- All nodes specified in the NODE parameter must have Cluster Resource Services active.

- Requesting user profile must exist on all nodes specified in the NODE parameter.

- Requesting user must have change (*CHANGE) authority to the authorization list, if specified, on the current node as well as all nodes specified for the Node (NODE) parameter to perform the start.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
SERVER | Server | Communications name | Required, Positional 1
RSPTIMO | Request response timeout | 1-300, 60 | Optional
AUTL | Authorization list | Name, *SERVER | Optional
NODE | Node | Values (up to 20 repetitions): Communications name, *LOCAL | Optional

Top

Server (SERVER)

Specifies the clustered hash table server to be started.

This is a required parameter.

name
Specify the name of the clustered hash table server to be started.

Top

Request response timeout (RSPTIMO)

Specifies the amount of time (in seconds) that the clustered hash table server has to complete a retrieve request. An error will be returned to the requester of the retrieve if the clustered hash table server does not get a response before the specified length of time. This parameter is ignored when the current cluster version is 3 or greater.

60
The clustered hash table server starting on the nodes specified on the NODE parameter will wait 60 seconds for a response.

1-300
Specify the number of seconds the clustered hash table server waits for a response before returning an error.

Top

Authorization list (AUTL)

Specifies an authorization list for the clustered hash table server. This defines the list of users authorized to start, end and connect to the clustered hash table server. An authorization list by the same name must exist on all nodes in the NODE parameter. The same authorization list name must be specified when starting a clustered hash table server that is already active on other nodes in the cluster.

*SERVER
Use the same authorization list as the clustered hash table server being started if it is already active on one of the nodes in the cluster. If the server does not exist in the cluster and this value is specified then no special authority will be needed to start, end or connect to the server. This value must be specified if the current cluster version is 2 or less.

name
Specify the name of the authorization list which defines the list of users authorized to the clustered hash table server. Users must have change (*CHANGE) authority to the named authorization list to start and end the clustered hash table server. Users must have use (*USE) authority to the named authorization list to connect to the clustered hash table server. Management of the authorization list is the users responsibility.

Top

Node (NODE)

Specifies the list of cluster nodes that compose the clustered hash table domain. A server job will be started on each of the cluster nodes specified. If the clustered hash table server already exists in the cluster, the cluster nodes specified will be added to the clustered hash table domain and a job will be started on the node specified. Nodes in this list must be unique.

The nodes must be active in the cluster.

*LOCAL
A clustered hash table server job will be started on the local node only. *LOCAL can be specified only once.

name
Specify the name of each cluster node that defines the clustered hash table domain. Up to 20 cluster nodes can be specified.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Starting a Local Clustered Hash Table Server

STRCHTSVR SERVER(CHTSVR1)

This command starts clustered hash table server CHTSVR1 only on the local node. There is no authority restriction on the clustered hash table server.

Example 2: Starting a Clustered Hash Table Server on Multiple Nodes

STRCHTSVR SERVER(CHTSVR2) AUTL(AUTHLIST) NODE(FRED BARNEY)

This command starts clustered hash table server CHTSVR2 on nodes FRED and BARNEY. The clustered hash table server has access restricted by authorization list AUTHLIST.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPFBD02
Start clustered hash table server failed.

Top