Save Configuration (SAVCFG)

Save Configuration (SAVCFG)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Save Configuration (SAVCFG) command saves all configuration and system resource management (SRM) objects without requiring a system in a restricted state. The information saved includes the following:

- Line descriptions

- Controller descriptions

- Device descriptions

- Mode descriptions

- Class-of-service descriptions

- Network interface descriptions

- Network server descriptions

- NetBIOS descriptions

- Connection lists

- Configuration lists

- Hardware resource data

- Token-ring adaptor data

Information saved can be restored with the Restore Configuration (RSTCFG) command.

Restrictions:

- You must have save system (*SAVSYS) special authority to run this command.

- System resource management (SRM) objects are not saved if a Work with Hardware Products (WRKHDWPRD) job is running at the same time.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
DEV | Device | Single values: *SAVF
Other values (up to 4 repetitions): Name | Required, Positional 1
VOL | Volume identifier | Single values: *MOUNTED
Other values (up to 75 repetitions): Character value | Optional
SEQNBR | Sequence number | 1-16777215, *END | Optional
EXPDATE | File expiration date | Date, *PERM | Optional
ENDOPT | End of media option | *REWIND, *LEAVE, *UNLOAD | Optional
USEOPTBLK | Use optimum block | *YES, *NO | Optional
SAVF | Save file | Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Save file | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
OPTFILE | Optical file | Path name, * | Optional
CLEAR | Clear | *NONE, *ALL, *AFTER, *REPLACE | Optional
PRECHK | Object pre-check | *NO, *YES | Optional
DTACPR | Data compression | *DEV, *NO, *YES, *LOW, *MEDIUM, *HIGH, *ZLIB | Optional
COMPACT | Data compaction | *DEV, *NO | Optional
OUTPUT | Output | *NONE, *PRINT, *OUTFILE | Optional
OUTFILE | File to receive output | Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: File to receive output | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
OUTMBR | Output member options | Element list | Optional
Element 1: Member to receive output | Name, *FIRST
Element 2: Replace or add records | *REPLACE, *ADD

Top

Device (DEV)

Specifies the name of the device used for the save operation. The device name must already be known on the system by a device description.

This is a required parameter.

Single values

*SAVF
The save operation is done using the save file specified for the Save file (SAVF) parameter.

Other values

optical-device-name
Specify the name of the optical device used for the save operation.

tape-media-library-device-name
Specify the name of the tape media library device used for the save operation.

tape-device-name
Specify the names of one or more tape devices used for the save operation. If a virtual tape device is used, it must be the only device specified. If multiple tape devices are used, they must have compatible media formats and their names must be specified in the order in which they are used. Using more than one tape device permits one tape volume to be rewound and unloaded while another tape device processes the next tape volume.

Top

Volume identifier (VOL)

Specifies the volume identifiers of the volumes, or the cartridge identifiers of tapes in a tape media library device, on which the data is saved. The volumes must be placed in the device in the same order as specified for this parameter.

Single values

*MOUNTED
The data is saved on the volumes placed in the device. For a media library device, the volume to be used is the next cartridge in the category mounted by the Set Tape Category (SETTAPCGY) command.

Note: This value cannot be specified when using an optical media library device.

Other values (up to 75 repetitions)

character-value
Specify the identifiers of one or more volumes in the order in which they are placed in a device and used to save the data.

Top

Sequence number (SEQNBR)

Specifies, when tape is used, the sequence number to use as the starting point for the save operation.

*END
The save operation begins after the last sequence number on the first tape. If the first tape is full, an error message is issued and the operation ends.

1-16777215
Specify the sequence number of the file to be used for the save operation.

Top

File expiration date (EXPDATE)

Specifies the expiration date of the file created by the save operation. If a date is specified, the file is protected and cannot be overwritten until the specified expiration date.

Notes:

- This parameter is valid for tape and optical files.

- Specifying this parameter does not protect against a later save operation specifying CLEAR(*ALL).

*PERM
The file is protected permanently.

date
Specify the date when protection for the file ends.

Top

End of media option (ENDOPT)

Specifies the operation that is automatically done on the tape or optical volume after the save operation ends. If more than one volume is used, this parameter applies only to the last volume used; all other volumes are unloaded when the end of the volume is reached.

Note: This parameter is valid only if a tape or optical device name is specified for the DEV parameter. For optical devices, *UNLOAD is the only special value supported, *REWIND and *LEAVE will be ignored.

*REWIND
The tape is automatically rewound, but not unloaded, after the operation has ended.

*LEAVE
The tape does not rewind or unload after the operation ends. It remains at the current position on the tape drive.

*UNLOAD
The tape is automatically rewound and unloaded after the operation ends. Some optical devices will eject the volume after the operation ends.

Top

Use optimum block (USEOPTBLK)

Specifies whether or not the optimum block size is used for the save operation.

Note: Specifying USEOPTBLK(*YES) may result in a tape that can be duplicated only to a device that supports the same block size.

*YES
The optimum block size supported by the device is used for Save commands. If the block size that is used is larger than a block size that is supported by all device types, then:

- Performance may improve.

- The tape file that is created is only compatible with a device that supports the block size used. Commands such as Duplicate Tape (DUPTAP) do not duplicate files unless the files are being duplicated to a device which supports the same block size that was used.

- The value for the DTACPR parameter is ignored.

*NO
The optimum block size supported by the device is not used. Save commands use the default block size supported by all device types. The tape volume can be duplicated to any media format using the Duplicate Tape (DUPTAP) command.

Top

Save file (SAVF)

Specifies the save file that is used to contain the saved data. The save file must be empty, unless *ALL is specified for the Clear (CLEAR) parameter.

Note: A value must be specified for this parameter if *SAVF is specified for the Device (DEV) parameter.

Qualifier 1: Save file

name
Specify the name of save file to be used.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the library list for the current thread are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the thread is used to locate the save file. If no current library entry exists in the library list, the QGPL library is used.

name
Specify the name of the library where the save file is located.

Top

Optical file (OPTFILE)

Specifies the path name of the optical file that is used for the save operation, beginning with the root directory of the volume.

For more information on specifying path names, refer to "Object naming rules" in the CL topic collection in the Programming category in the IBM i Information Center at http://www.ibm.com/systems/i/infocenter/.

*
The system generates an optical file name in the root directory of the optical volume.

'optical-directory-path-name/*'
The system generates an optical file name in the specified directory of the optical volume.

Top

Clear (CLEAR)

Specifies whether active data on the media is automatically cleared or replaced. Active data is any file on the media that has not expired. For saves to tape, clearing active data will make any files on the tape volume beyond the last file written by the save operation no longer accessible. For saves to optical, the files written by the save operation can be automatically replaced while other files on the volume remain active, or all active files can be automatically cleared. Clearing does not erase the data, it just makes the files no longer accessible.

Notes:

- Clearing a tape does not initialize it. You should initialize tapes to a standard label format before the save command is issued by using the Initialize Tape (INZTAP) command and specifying a value for the NEWVOL parameter.

- Clearing an optical volume does initialize it.

- If a volume that is not initialized is encountered during the save operation, an inquiry message is sent and an operator can initialize the volume.

*NONE
None of the media is automatically cleared. If the save operation encounters active data on a tape volume or in a save file, an inquiry message is sent, allowing the operator to either end the save operation or clear the media. If the save operation encounters the specified optical file, an inquiry message is sent, allowing the operator to either end the save operation or replace the file.

*ALL
All of the media is automatically cleared.

If tapes are used and a sequence number is specified for the SEQNBR parameter, the first tape is cleared beginning at that sequence number. All tapes following that first tape are completely cleared. To clear the entire first tape, SEQNBR(1) must be specified.

*AFTER
All media after the first volume is automatically cleared. If the save operation encounters active data on the first tape volume, an inquiry message is sent, allowing the operator to either end the save operation or clear the media. If the save operation encounters the specified optical file on the first volume, an inquiry message is sent, allowing the operator to either end the save operation or replace the file.

Note: The *AFTER value is not valid for save files.

*REPLACE
Active data on the media is automatically replaced. Optical volumes are not initialized. Other media is automatically cleared in the same way as the *ALL value.

Top

Object pre-check (PRECHK)

Specifies whether the save configuration operation ends if any of the objects satisfy the following conditions:

- The objects were previously found to be damaged.

- The objects are locked by another job.

- The user does not have authority to save the objects.

*NO
The save operation continues, saving only configuration and system resource management (SRM) objects that can be saved.

*YES
The save operation ends before any data is written to the media if any configuration objects or system resource manager objects cannot be saved.

Top

Data compression (DTACPR)

Specifies whether data compression is used. If the save is running while other jobs on the system are active and software compression is used, the overall system performance may be affected.

Note: If *DEV is specified for both this parameter and the Data compaction (COMPACT) parameter, only device data compaction is performed if device data compaction is supported on the device. Otherwise, data compression is performed.

If *YES is specified for this parameter and *DEV is specified for the COMPACT parameter, both device data compaction and device data compression are performed if supported on the device.

*DEV
If the save is to tape and the target device supports compression, hardware compression is performed. Otherwise, no data compression is performed.

*NO
No data compression is performed.

*YES
If the save is to tape and the target device supports compression, hardware compression is performed. If compression is not supported, or if the save data is written to optical media or to a save file, software compression is performed. Low software compression is used for all devices except optical DVD, which uses medium software compression.

*LOW
Software data compression is performed with the SNA algorithm. Low compression is usually faster and the compressed data is usually larger than if medium, high, or zlib compression is used.

*MEDIUM
Software data compression is performed with the TERSE algorithm. Medium compression is usually slower than low compression but faster than high compression. The compressed data is usually smaller than if low compression is used and larger than if high or zlib compression is used.

*HIGH
Software data compression is performed with the LZ1 algorithm. High compression is usually the slowest and the compressed data is usually smaller than if low or medium compression is used and larger than if zlib compression is used.

*ZLIB
Software data compression is performed with the ZLIB deflate algorithm. Zlib compression takes advantage of hardware acceleration if available and is usually faster than medium or high compression. If hardware acceleration is unavailable then zlib compression is usually slower than medium compression but faster than high compression. The compressed data is usually always the smallest.

Top

Data compaction (COMPACT)

Specifies whether device data compaction is performed.

*DEV
Device data compaction is performed if the data is saved to tape and all tape devices specified for the Device (DEV) parameter support the compaction feature.

Note: If *DEV is specified for both the Data compression (DTACPR) parameter and this parameter, only device data compaction is performed if device data compaction is supported on the device. Otherwise, data compression is performed if supported on the device.

If *YES is specified for the DTACPR parameter and *DEV is specified for this parameter, both device data compaction and device data compression are performed if supported on the device.

*NO
Device data compaction is not performed.

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether a list with information about the saved objects is created. The information can be printed with the job's spooled output or directed to a database file.

*NONE
No output listing is created.

*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output.

*OUTFILE
The output is directed to the database file specified for the File to receive output (OUTFILE) parameter.

Note: You must specify a database file name for the File to receive output (OUTFILE) parameter when OUTPUT(*OUTFILE) is specified.

Top

File to receive output (OUTFILE)

Specifies the database file to which the output of the command is directed. If the file does not exist, this command creates a database file in the specified library. If the file is created, the public authority for the file is the same as the create authority specified for the library in which the file is created. Use the Display Library Description (DSPLIBD) command to show the library's create authority.

Qualifier 1: File to receive output

name
Specify the name of the database file to which the command output is directed.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
The library list is used to locate the file. If the file is not found, one is created in the current library. If no current library exists, the file will be created in the QGPL library.

*CURLIB
The current library for the thread is used to locate the file. If no library is specified as the current library for the thread, the QGPL library is used.

name
Specify the name of the library to be searched.

Note: If a new file is created, the system uses the IBM-supplied file QASAVOBJ with format name QSRSAV as a model.

Top

Output member options (OUTMBR)

Specifies the name of the database file member to which the output is directed when *OUTFILE is specified for the Output (OUTPUT) parameter.

Element 1: Member to receive output

*FIRST
The first member in the file receives the output. If OUTMBR(*FIRST) is specified and the member does not exist, the system creates a member with the name of the file specified for the File to receive output (OUTFILE) parameter.

name
Specify the name of the file member that receives the output. If OUTMBR(member-name) is specified and the member does not exist, the system creates it.
If the member exists, you can add records to the end of the existing member or clear the existing member and add the records.

Element 2: Replace or add records

*REPLACE
The existing records in the specified database file member are replaced by the new records.

*ADD
The new records are added to the existing information in the specified database file member.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Saving Objects

SAVCFG DEV(TAP01) CLEAR(*ALL)

This command saves system resource management objects (hardware resource data and token-ring adaptor data) and all configuration objects (including all line, controller, device, mode, class-of-service, and network descriptions, configuration lists, and connection lists). They are saved on the TAP01 tape drive. CLEAR(*ALL) automatically clears all uncleared tapes when they are encountered.

Example 2: Saving Objects to a Specific Tape

SAVCFG DEV(TAP01) VOL(ABC)

This command saves the SRM and configuration objects on the TAP01 tape drive, starting on the tape volume labeled ABC. If the save operation exceeds the storage capacity of one tape, a message requesting that another volume be put on the TAP01 tape drive is issued.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF2206
User needs authority to do requested function on object.

CPF222E
&1 special authority is required.

CPF3709
Tape devices do not support same densities.

CPF3727
Duplicate device &1 specified on device name list.

CPF3728
Device &1 specified with other devices.

CPF3731
Cannot use &2 &1 in library &3.

CPF3733
&2 &1 in &3 previously damaged.

CPF3737
Save and restore data area &1 not found.

CPF376D
Not all configuration objects saved to save file &3.

CPF376E
Not all configuration objects saved.

CPF3767
Device &1 not found.

CPF3768
Device &1 not valid for command.

CPF3782
File &1 in &2 not a save file.

CPF3793
Machine or ASP storage limit reached.

CPF3794
Save or restore operation ended unsuccessfully.

CPF3812
Save file &1 in &2 in use.

CPF384E
USEOPTBLK(*YES) not valid for CD-ROM premastering.

CPF388B
Optical file path name not valid.

CPF3894
Cancel reply received for message &1.

CPF5729
Not able to allocate object &1.

CPF9809
Library &1 cannot be accessed.

CPF9812
File &1 in library &2 not found.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

CPF9846
Error while processing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9847
Error occurred while closing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9850
Override of printer file &1 not allowed.

CPF9851
Overflow value for file &1 in &2 too small.

CPF9860
Error occurred during output file processing.

Top