OVERLAY (Overlay) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

OVERLAY (Overlay) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword
to specify that the record format that you are defining should appear on the
display without the entire display being deleted first.

This keyword has no parameters.
Normally, the entire display
is deleted on each output operation. All records on the display with fields
that partially or completely overlap fields in this record are deleted before
this record is displayed; all others remain on the display and are not changed
in any way. A record already on the display is deleted even if fields specified
in the record format are not selected for display. For example, assume that
the following records are on the display: REC1 (lines 1 and 2)
REC2 (lines 3 and 4)
REC3 (line 5)
REC4 (line 9)
An output of REC5 (lines 4 and 5) with OVERLAY will leave
the display with the following records: REC1 (lines 1 and 2)
REC5 (lines 4 and 5)
REC4 (line 9)

If the record with the OVERLAY keyword in effect
is already on the display and PUTOVR, PUTRETAIN, or CLRL keyword is not specified,
it is deleted and rewritten as a new record.
When the beginning attribute
character of a record overlaps the ending attribute character of a record
already displayed, the attribute characters overlap each other in position
1 of a line. (The last field of the first record displayed ends in the farthest
right display position of the preceding line.)
In the above example,
however, if the only portion of REC2 on line 4 is the ending attribute character
of the last field of REC2 (which occurs when the last displayed character
of the last field of REC2 is in the last position of line 3), REC2 remains
displayed following the display of REC5 with OVERLAY. The display will have
the following records: REC1 (lines 1 and 2)
REC2 (line3)
REC5 (lines 4 and 5)
REC9 (line 9)

The display is always deleted on the first output
operation after the file is opened, except when both ASSUME and OVERLAY are
specified.
OVERLAY is assumed by the IBM® i operating
system for ERRMSG, ERRMSGID, PUTOVR, and CLRL functions.
If OVERLAY
is conditioned and not selected, then the ERASE, ERASEINP, MDTOFF, PROTECT,
and PUTRETAIN keywords cannot take effect if they are selected, unless the
PUTOVR keyword is selected. In such cases, the ERASE, ERASEINP, and MDTOFF
keywords can take effect.
If you specify OVERLAY, you should also specify
the RSTDSP(*YES) keyword on the CRTDSPF (Create Display File) or CHGDSPF (Change
Display File) command. Otherwise, data on the display can be lost if the file
is suspended.
To delete any of the records on the display, use the ERASE
keyword to specify the names of the record formats to be deleted.
If
you also specify the CLRL keyword, processing proceeds according to the CLRL
specification, not the OVERLAY specification.
A warning message is sent
at file creation time if the OVERLAY keyword is specified on a record with
the DSPMOD keyword. At run time, the OVERLAY keyword is ignored when the display
mode changes.
Option indicators are valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the OVERLAY keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00021A R RECL OVERLAY
A