Remove TCP/IP Host Table Entry (RMVTCPHTE)

Remove TCP/IP Host Table Entry (RMVTCPHTE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Remove TCP/IP Host Table Entry (RMVTCPHTE) command is used to remove an internet address, all of its associated host names, and the associated text description field from the local host table. The local host table is defined to allow one internet address, 65 host names and one text description field per entry.

See also the following host table commands:

- Add TCP/IP Host Table Entry (ADDTCPHTE) command adds a new entry to the local host table.

- Change TCP/IP Host Table Entry (CHGTCPHTE) command changes one or more host names or the text description field.

- Copy TCP/IP Host Table (CPYTCPHT) command copies the contents of the local host table to a physical file member.

- Merge TCP/IP Host Table (MRGTCPHT) command merges host names, internet addresses, and text comment entries from a physical file member into the local host table. A replace option is also provided that allows the entire local host table to be replaced by the host table entries in a user specified physical file member.

- Rename TCP/IP Host Table Entry (RNMTCPHTE) command renames the internet address of a host table entry to another internet address

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority to run this command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
INTNETADR | Internet address | Character value | Required, Positional 1

Top

Internet address (INTNETADR)

Specifies the internet address that is to be removed from the local host table. An IPv4 internet address is specified in the form nnn.nnn.nnn.nnn, where nnn is a decimal number ranging from 0 through 255. An IPv4 internet address is not valid if it has a value of all binary ones or all binary zeros for the network identifier (ID) portion or the host ID portion of the address.

An IPv6 internet address is specified in the form x:x:x:x:x:x:x:x, where x is a hexadecimal number ranging from 0 through X'FFFF'. "::" may be used once in the IPv6 address to indicate one or more groups of 16 bits of zeros. The "::" may be used to compress leading, imbedded, or trailing zeros in the address.

An IPv4-mapped IPv6 address may be specified. An IPv4-mapped IPv6 address is specified in the form ::FFFF:nnn.nnn.nnn.nnn, where nnn is a decimal number ranging from 0 through 255.

If the internet address is entered from a command line, the address must be enclosed in apostrophes.

This is a required parameter.

character-value
Specify the internet address.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Removing an IPv4 Host Table Entry

RMVTCPHTE INTNETADR('132.28.71.5')

This command removes the host table entry with an internet address of 132.28.71.5. This includes the internet address, all associated host names, and the text description field associated with the entry.

Example 2: Removing an IPv6 Host Table Entry

RMVTCPHTE INTNETADR('1234::5678')

This command removes the host table entry with an internet address of 1234::5678. This includes the internet address, all associated host names, and the text description field associated with the entry.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

TCP1901
Internet address &2 not valid.

TCP1902
Internet address &1 not valid.

TCP1907
Internet address entry &1 does not exist.

TCP1908
Internet address &1 not valid.

TCP1929
Host table not available.

TCP8050
*IOSYSCFG authority required to use &1.

TCP9999
Internal system error in program &1.

Top