order-by-clause

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > subselect > subselect

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > subselect

order-by-clause
The ORDER BY clause specifies an ordering of the rows of
the result table.
ORDERSIBLINGSBY,sort-keyASCDESCORDER OFtable-designatorINPUT SEQUENCEsort-keycolumn-nameintegersort-key-expression
A subselect that contains an ORDER BY clause
cannot be specified in the outermost fullselect of a view.
Note: An ORDER BY clause in a subselect does
not affect the order of the rows returned by a query. An ORDER BY
clause only affects the order of the rows returned if it is specified
in the outermost fullselect.
If the subselect is not enclosed within parentheses and
is not the outermost fullselect, the ORDER BY clause cannot be specified.
If a single sort specification (one sort-key with
associated ascending or descending ordering specification) is identified,
the rows are ordered by the values of that specification. If more
than one sort specification is identified, the rows are ordered by
the values of the first identified sort specification, then by the
values of the second identified sort specification, and so on.
If the subselect includes a hierarchical-query-clause,
ORDER SIBLINGS BY can be specified. This specifies that the ordering
applies to siblings within the hierarchies only and parent rows are
sorted before their child rows.
If a collating sequence other than *HEX is in effect when
the statement that contains the ORDER BY clause is executed and if
the ORDER BY clause involves sort specifications that are SBCS data,
mixed data, or Unicode data, the comparison for those sort specifications
is done using weighted values. The weighted values are derived by
applying the collating sequence to the values of the sort specifications.
A named column in the
select list may be identified by a sort-key that
is a integer or a column-name.
An unnamed column in the select list may be identified by a integer or,
in some cases by a sort-key-expression that
matches the expression in the select list (see details of sort-key-expression).
Names of result columns defines when result columns
are unnamed. If the fullselect includes a UNION operator, see fullselect for the rules on named columns in a
fullselect.
Ordering is performed in accordance with the comparison
rules described in Language elements. The null
value is higher than all other values. If your ordering specification
does not determine a complete ordering, rows with duplicate values
of the last identified sort-key have an
arbitrary order. If the ORDER BY clause is not specified, the rows
of the result table have an arbitrary order.
The sum of the length attributes
of the sort-keys must not exceed 3.5 gigabytes.
column-name
Must unambiguously identify a column of the result
table. The column must not be a DATALINK or XML column and must not
be the result of the ARRAY_AGG function. The rules for unambiguous
column references are the same as in the other clauses of the fullselect.
See Column name qualifiers to avoid ambiguity for more information. If
the fullselect includes a UNION, UNION ALL, EXCEPT, or INTERSECT,
the column name cannot be qualified.
The column-name may
also identify a column name of a table, view, or nested-table-expression identified
in the FROM clause. This includes columns defined
as implicitly hidden. An error occurs if the subselect includes
an aggregation in the select list and the column-name is
not a grouping-expression.

integer
Must be greater than 0 and not greater than the number
of columns in the result table. The integer n identifies the nth
column of the result table. The identified column must not be a DATALINK
or XML column and must not be the result of the ARRAY_AGG function.
sort-key-expression
An expression that is not simply a column name or an unsigned
integer constant. The query to which ordering is applied must be a
subselect to use this form of sort-key. The sort-key-expression cannot contain RRN, RID,
DATAPARTITIONNAME, DATAPARTITIONNUM, DBPARTITIONNAME, DBPARTITIONNUM,
and HASHED_VALUE scalar functions if the fullselect includes
a UNION, UNION ALL, EXCEPT, or INTERSECT. The result of the sort-key-expression must
not be DATALINK or XML.
If the subselect is grouped, the sort-key-expression can
be an expression in the select list of the subselect or can include
an aggregate function, constant, or variable.

ASC
Uses
the values of the column in ascending order. This is the default.
DESC
Uses
the values of the column in descending order.
ORDER OF table-designator
Specifies
that the same ordering used in table-designator should
be applied to the result table of the subselect. There must be a table
reference matching table-designator in the
FROM clause of the subselect that specifies this clause and the table
reference must identify a nested-table-expression or common-table-expression.
The ordering that is applied is the same as if the columns of the
ORDER BY clause in the nested-table-expression or common-table-expression were
included in the outer subselect (or fullselect), and these columns
were specified in place of the ORDER OF clause. If
the nested-table-expression or common-table-expression has
no ORDER BY clause, the order is not defined.ORDER OF is not
allowed if the query specifies: a distributed table,
a table with a read trigger, or
a logical file built over multiple physical file members.

INPUT SEQUENCE
Specifies
that the result table reflects the input order of the rows of an INSERT
statement. INPUT SEQUENCE ordering can be specified only when an INSERT
statement is specified in a from-clause. If INPUT SEQUENCE
is specified and the input data is not ordered, the INPUT SEQUENCE
clause is ignored.

Column access controls do not effect the operation
of the ORDER BY clause. The order is based on the original column
values. However, after column masks are applied, the masked values
in the final result table might not reflect the order of the original
column values.
A sort-key must not be LOB if
the query specifies: a distributed table,
a table with a read trigger, or
a logical file built over multiple physical file members.

Parent topic: subselect