Aliases

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Language elements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements

Aliases
An alias can be thought of as an alternative name
for a table, partition of a table, view, or member of a database file.
A table or view in an SQL statement can be referenced by its name
or by an alias. An alias can refer to a table, partition
of a table, view, or database file member within the same or a remote
relational database.
An alias can be used wherever a table or view name can
be used, except:
Do not use an alias name where a new table or view name is expected,
such as in the CREATE TABLE or CREATE VIEW statements. For example,
if an alias name of PERSONNEL is created, then a subsequent statement
such as CREATE TABLE PERSONNEL will cause an error.
An alias that refers to an individual partition of
a table or member of a database file can only be used in a select
statement, CREATE INDEX, DELETE, INSERT, MERGE, SELECT INTO, SET variable,
UPDATE, or VALUES INTO statement.

Aliases can also help avoid using file overrides. Not
only does an alias perform better than an override, but an alias is
also a permanent object that only need be created once.
An alias can be created even though the object that the
alias refers to does not exist. However, the object must exist when
a statement that references the alias is executed. A warning is returned
if the object does not exist when the alias is created. An alias cannot
refer to another alias.
Statements that use three-part names and
refer to distributed data, result in DRDA® access
to the remote relational database. When an application program uses
three-part name aliases for remote objects and DRDA access, the application program must be
bound at each location that is specified in the three-part names.
Also, each alias needs to be defined at the local site. An alias at
a remote site can refer to yet another server as long as a referenced
alias eventually refers to a table or view.
The option of referring to a table, partition of a table,
view, or database file member by an alias name is not explicitly shown
in the syntax diagrams or mentioned in the description of the SQL
statements.
A new alias cannot have the same fully-qualified name
as an existing table, view, index, file, or alias.
The effect of using an alias in an SQL statement is similar
to that of text substitution. The alias, which must be defined before
the SQL statement is executed, is replaced at statement preparation
time by the qualified base table, partition of a table, view,
or database file member name. For example, if PBIRD.SALES is an alias
for DSPN014.DIST4_SALES_148, then at statement run time:
SELECT * FROM PBIRD.SALES

effectively becomes
SELECT * FROM DSPN014.DIST4_SALES_148

The effect of dropping an alias and recreating it to refer
to another table depends on the statement that references the alias.
SQL Data or SQL Data Change statements that refer to that alias
will be implicitly rebound when they are next run.
Indexes that reference the alias are not affected.
Materialized query tables or views that reference the alias are
not affected.

For syntax toleration of existing DB2® for z/OS® applications,
SYNONYM can be used in place of ALIAS in the CREATE ALIAS and DROP
ALIAS statements.

Parent topic: Language elements