Character strings

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Data types > Data types

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Data types

Character strings
A character string is a sequence of bytes. The length
of the string is the number of bytes in the sequence. If the length
is zero, the value is called the empty string. The empty string
should not be confused with the null value.
Fixed-length character stringsWhen fixed-length character string
distinct types, columns, and variables are defined, the length attribute
is specified and all values have the same length. For a fixed-length
character string, the length attribute must be between 1 through 32766
inclusive. See SQL limits for more information.
Varying-length character stringsThe types
of varying-length character strings are:
VARCHAR
CLOB

A Character Large OBject (CLOB) column is useful for
storing large amounts of character data, such as documents written
using a single character set.
Distinct types, columns, and variables
all have length attributes. When varying-length character-string distinct
types, columns, and variables are defined, the maximum length is specified
and this becomes the length attribute. Actual values may have a smaller
length. For a varying-length character string, the length attribute
must be between 1 through 32 740 inclusive. For a CLOB string, the
length attribute must be between 1 through 2 147 483 647 inclusive.
See SQL limits for more information.
For
the restrictions that apply to the use of long varying-length strings,
see Limitations on use of strings.
Character-string variables
Fixed-length character-string variables can be used in all host
languages except REXX and Java™. (In C or C++, fixed-length
character-string variables are limited to a length of 1.)
VARCHAR varying-length character-string variables can be used
in C, C++, COBOL, PL/I, REXX, and RPG: In PL/I, REXX,
and ILE RPG, there is a varying-length character-string data type.
In COBOL, C, and C++ varying-length character strings are represented
as structures.
In C and C++, varying-length character-string variables can also
be represented by NUL-terminated strings.
In RPG/400®, varying-length
character-string variables can only be represented by VARCHAR columns
included as a result of an externally described data structure.

CLOB varying-length character-string variables can be defined
in all host languages except REXX, RPG/400,
and COBOL/400. In ILE RPG, a CLOB varying-length character string is declared
using the SQLTYPE keyword.
In all other languages, an SQL TYPE IS CLOB clause is used.

Parent topic: Data types