EVOKE (Evoke) keyword for ICF files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS Reference: ICF Files > DDS keyword entries for ICF files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS Reference: ICF Files > DDS keyword entries for ICF files (positions 45 through 80)

EVOKE (Evoke) keyword for ICF files

You can use this file- or record-level keyword
to start a program on the remote system.

The format of the keyword is: EVOKE([library-/e1e/]program-name [parameter-1...[parameter-255]])
The
program-name can be any one of the following:
program-name

This is the name of the program to be started on the remote system. The
name is syntax-checked at creation time for a valid object name.

'character-string-1'

This is the name of the program to be started on the remote system. The
name you specify must be in a format acceptable to the remote system because
the character string will not be syntax-checked.

&field-name-1

The specified field contains the name of the program to be started on
the remote system. The field name must be a valid field you have specified
in the record format and must be a character field (data type of A). The name
you specify must be in a format acceptable to the remote system.

The optional library-name can be any one of the following:

library-name/

This is the name of the library that contains the program to be started
on the remote system. The name is syntax-checked at creation time for a valid
object name. For this keyword, *CURLIB and *LIBL are not valid names. If either
one needs to be specified, a quoted character string should be used.

'character-string-2'/

This is the name of the library that contains the program to be started
on the remote system. The name you specify must be in a format acceptable
to the remote system because the character string will not be syntax-checked.

&field-name-2/

The specified field contains the name of the library that contains the
program to be started on the remote system. The field name must be a valid
field you have specified in the record format and must be a character field
(data type of A). The name you specify must be in a format acceptable to the
remote system.

Note: If the IBM® i operating
system is running on the remote system and no library is specified, the library
list is used to search for the program.

Parameter-1 through parameter-255 can
be any of the following:

'character-string-3'

This is a character string that is passed to the program on the remote
system. The character string must be in a format acceptable to the remote
system because it will not be syntax-checked.

[&]field-name-3

This is the name of the field that contains the data you want passed to
the program on the remote system. The field name must be a valid field you
have specified in the record format.

numeric-value-3

This is a numeric value that is passed to the program on the remote system.
The numeric value can be a negative or positive value (signed or unsigned).
A decimal point of , or . is optional. No decimal alignment will be performed.
Leading zeros will not be suppressed. The data is sent as a zoned decimal
value. The following numeric values are all valid: 999.6
-999,6
01587

Special considerations when using the EVOKE keyword with ICF
filesThese are special considerations when using the EVOKE keyword.
When the EVOKE keyword is specified at the file level, you cannot specify
a field name as a parameter value.

The maximum length allowed for the combined program name
and library name is 64. The slash between the program name and the library
name is counted as part of the 64 bytes. Advanced Program-to-Program Communication
(APPC) does not send the slash unless it is specified within a literal (for
example, LIBRARY/PROGRAM).

The total length of parameter-1 through parameter-255 cannot be more than
32 767 bytes. Note: In calculating the maximum length of PIP data for
APPC, keep these considerations in mind: Four bytes must be added to the
length of each of these parameters. An additional 4 bytes must be added if
any parameters are specified. These bytes are required by the system.
Use
the following formula to determine the total length of the parameters:
4 + (length of 1st parameter + 4) + (length of
2nd parameter + 4)
+ ... (length of nth parameter + 4)
Here is an example of how to
use this formula:
EVOKE(LIBRARY1/PROGRAM1 'THIS IS AN EXAMPLE OF
A
CHARACTER STRING' &FIELD1 35)
Assume that &FIELD1 has a length of 10.
4 + (40 + 4) + (10 + 4) + (2 + 4) = 68

The length of each parameter (parameter-1 through parameter-255) should
be the same as the length of the corresponding parameter in the remote program.

If a field name with a usage of P is specified as a parameter of the EVOKE
keyword, this field is not sent as part of the data record.

A program evoked on the IBM i operating
system will receive any parameters sent by the remote program just as if they
had been passed by the CL CALL command. Note: If the IBM i job is a prestart job, the
program must use the Retrieve Data Area (RTVDTAARA) command to receive the
parameters.

This keyword is required when either the SECURITY or SYNLVL keyword
is specified. At run time, the SECURITY and SYNLVL keywords are used only
when EVOKE is also in effect.
The EVOKE keyword is ignored at run time
when CANCEL, CNLINVITE, EOS, FAIL, NEGRSP, RSPCONFIRM, or RQSWRT is in effect.
These keywords must have option indicators when they apply to a record for
which the EVOKE keyword applies. If a CANCEL, CNLINVITE, EOS, FAIL, NEGRSP,
or RQSWRT keyword with no option indicator applies to a record for which EVOKE
applies, an error message is issued and the EVOKE keyword is ignored at creation
time.
You cannot specify EVOKE with the TIMER keyword.
Option
indicators are valid for this keyword and are required if this keyword is
specified more than once for each record format or file.

Example The following example shows how to specify
the EVOKE keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R RCD
00020A 01 : EVOKE(LIBRARY1/PROGRAM1) (1)
00030A 02 : EVOKE(LIBRARY2/PROGRAM2) (1)
A : :
A : :
00090A R RCD2 EVOKE(&FIELD2/&FIELD1 'ABC' 10.1 +
00100A FIELD3) (2)
00110A FIELD1 10A P
00120A FIELD2 10A P
00130A FIELD3 5B P
ANote:
(1)

If indicator 01 is on, PROGRAM1 in LIBRARY1 will be started. If indicator
02 is on, PROGRAM2 in LIBRARY2 will be started.

(2)

&FIELD1 contains the name of the program to be started. &FIELD2
contains the name of the library. The character string ABC, numeric value
10.1, and the value in FIELD3 will be passed to the program on the remote
system.