Analyze Database File Keys (ANZDBFKEY)

Analyze Database File Keys (ANZDBFKEY)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Analyze Database File Keys (ANZDBFKEY) command produces, from the data generated by the Analyze Database File (ANZDBF) command, two reports showing the key structure of the database files.

One report is written to the printer file QPPTANZK. The other report is written to the printer file QPPTANKM. QPPTANZK contains a listing of the access paths and (logical files only) selection criteria for each key field or selection rule. QPPTANKM contains a matrix of the key fields for all logical files based on the physical file.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
FILE | Physical file | Name, *NUMLF | Optional
NUMLF | Min number of logical files | 1.0-99999.0, 5 | Optional
JOB | Job name | Name, ANZDBFKEY | Optional
JOBD | Job description | Single values: *NONE
Other values: Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Job description | Name, QPFRJOBD
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB

Top

Physical file (FILE)

Specifies which physical files to select from the list processed by the Analyze Database File (ANZDBF) command. The report includes all logical files associated with each selected physical file.

*NUMLF
Specifies all physical files that have at least a minimum number of associated logical files. The specific minimum is defined by the Min number of logical files (NUMLF) parameter.

name
Specify the name of a particular physical file.

Top

Min number of logical files (NUMLF)

Specifies the minimum number of logical files associated with a physical file before that physical file is selected. This parameter is valid only when *NUMLF is specified for the Physical file (FILE) parameter.

5
At least 5 logical files must be associated with a physical file.

1-99999
Specify the minimum number of logical files required.

Top

Job name (JOB)

Specifies the job name to be used if submitting the job for batch processing.

Any value for this parameter is ignored if *NONE is specified for the Job description (JOBD) parameter.

Note: If JOBD(*NONE) is specified, job processing is performed interactively.

ANZDBFKEY
The command name is used for the job name.

name
Specify the name to be used for any and all batch jobs.

Top

Job description (JOBD)

Specifies the job description used to submit the job for batch processing.

Single values

*NONE
A batch job is not submitted; processing continues interactively while the user waits. The user's workstation is not available for other use during this time, which could be significant for long jobs.

Qualifier 1: Job description

QPFRJOBD
The IBM-supplied job description, QPFRJOBD, is used.

name
Specify the name of the job description to be used.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the job's library list are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is used to locate the job description. If no current library entry exists in the library list, QGPL is used.

name
Specify the library in which the job description is located.

Top

Examples

ANZDBFKEY FILE(*NUMLF) NUMLF(2)

This command produces reports on the keys for all files that refer to physical files with at least two associated logical files.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

PFR5251
Cannot access data to analyze data base file.

PFR9802
Unexpected message monitored.

Top