Grant Access Code Authority (GRTACCAUT)

Grant Access Code Authority (GRTACCAUT)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Grant Access Code Authority (GRTACCAUT) command allows you to give the specified users authority to access documents and folders associated with the access codes. Access is restricted to read only (*USE authority).

Restrictions:

- The access code must be defined to the system before you can grant access code authority.

- The user being granted access code authority must be enrolled in the system distribution directory.

- To use this command, you must have all object (*ALLOBJ) or security administrator (*SECADM) special authority.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
ACC | Document access code | Single values: *REFUSER
Other values (up to 300 repetitions): 1-2047 | Required, Positional 1
USER | User profile | Values (up to 300 repetitions): Name | Required, Positional 2
REFUSER | Reference user profile | Name, *NONE | Optional

Top

Document access code (ACC)

Specifies the access code being authorized for use by the user identified on the User profile (USER) parameter.

This is a required parameter.

Single values

*REFUSER
The access code authority being granted is based on the (referred to) user profile name; specified for the Reference user profile (REFUSER) parameter.

Other values (up to 300 repetitions)

1-2047
Specify the access code to which you want authority to be granted. The access code must be defined to the system using the Add Access Code (ADDACC) command before being specified on this parameter.

Top

User profile (USER)

Specifies the user profile name of the users to whom you are granting access code authority. The users identified will have the access code added to their current list of authorized access codes; this access code is used to verify additional document and folder accesses from the document library. The user must be enrolled in the system distribution directory before being granted authority to use an access code.

Note: By granting an access code to a group user profile, that access code is granted (implicitly) to every user under that group.

This is a required parameter.

You can specify 300 values for this parameter.

name
Specify the name of the user profile of a user to whom you are granting access code authority.

Top

Reference user profile (REFUSER)

Specifies the referred-to user profile on which the access code authority is based. If this parameter is used, then *REFUSER must be specified for the Document access code (ACC) parameter.

*NONE
No referred to user is used to grant access code authority.

name
Specify the name of the user profile that the access code authority is based on. This user must also be enrolled in the system distribution directory.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Granting Authority to Multiple Users

GRTACCAUT ACC(3 30 60) USER(SAM LARRY)

This command gives authority to access codes 3, 30, and 60 to SAM and LARRY.

Example 2: Granting Authority Based on Another User

GRTACCAUT ACC(*REFUSER) USER(JOE) REFUSER(TOM)

This command grants access code authority to JOE based on TOM's authority. For example, if JOE currently has authority to access codes 1, 12, and 50, and TOM currently has authority to access codes 8 and 9, the GRTACCAUT command authorizes JOE to access codes 1, 8, 9, 12, and 50.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF9009
System requires file &1 in &2 be journaled.

CPF9013
Access code authority given to &1 users, not granted to &2 users.

CPF9024
System cannot get correct record to finish operation.

CPF9065
Not allowed to give access code authority.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

CPF9846
Error while processing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9847
Error occurred while closing file &1 in library &2.

Top