Illustration of LINAGE clause phrases

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—File and Sort Description Entries > LINAGE Clause > LINAGE Clause

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—File and Sort Description Entries > LINAGE Clause

Illustration of LINAGE clause phrases

Figure 1. LINAGE Clause Phrases
The logical page size specified in the LINAGE clause is the sum of all
values specified in each phrase except the FOOTING phrase. If the LINES AT
TOP and/or the LINES AT BOTTOM phrase is omitted, the assumed value for top
and bottom margins is zero. Each logical page immediately follows the preceding
logical page, with no additional spacing provided.
If the FOOTING phrase is specified and the value of data-name-4 or integer-9
is equal to the LINAGE value of data-name-3 or integer-8, one line (the last
line of the logical page) is available for footing information.
If the FOOTING phrase is omitted, its assumed value is equal to that of
the page body (integer-8 or data-name-3).
At the time an OPEN OUTPUT statement is executed, the values of integer-8,
integer-9, integer-10, and integer-11, if specified, are used to determine
the page body, first footing line, top margin, and bottom margin of the logical
page for this file. See Figure 1. These values are then used for
all logical pages printed for this file during a given execution of the program.
At the time an OPEN statement with the OUTPUT phrase is executed for the
file, data-name-3, data-name-4, data-name-5, and data-name-6 determine the
page body, first footing line, top margin, and bottom margin for the first
logical page only.
At the time a WRITE statement with the ADVANCING PAGE phrase is executed
or a page overflow condition occurs, the values of data-name-3, data-name-4,
data-name-5, and data-name-6, if specified, are used to determine the page
body, first footing line, top margin, and bottom margin for the next logical
page.

Parent topic: LINAGE Clause