ZFOLD (Z-fold) keyword in printer files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

ZFOLD (Z-fold) keyword in printer files

You use this record-level keyword to specify
that a z-fold operation is performed on the current sheet.

The z-fold operation causes the current sheet to be first
folded in half inwards (so the front side of the sheet is now inside
the fold) along a line parallel to the reference edge. The half of
the sheet furthest from the reference edge is again folded in half
outwards along a line parallel to the reference edge. For example,
when applied to an 11 x 17 in. sheet with the reference edge along
a short side, the result is an 8.5 x 11 in. foldout.
This finishing
operation is applied to each medium, or sheet.
The format of
the keyword is:
ZFOLD(reference-edge paper-type)The
reference-edge and paper-type parameters are required.
You
can specify the following values for these two parameters:

reference-edge:
*BOT

The reference edge is the bottom edge of the media.

*RIGHT

The reference edge is the right edge of the media.

*TOP

The reference edge is the top edge of the media.

*LEFT

The reference edge is the left edge of the media.

*DEVD

The reference edge is the default reference edge used by the device.

paper-type:
*LEDGER

The paper to be used is ledger-sized (11 x 17 in.).

*A3

The paper to be used is A3-sized (297 mm x 420 mm).

Specify DEVTYPE(*AFPDS) on the CRTPRTF command when ZFOLD
is specified in the file. If DEVTYPE is changed to anything other
than *AFPDS, the keyword is ignored and a warning message is issued
at print time.
If ZFOLD is specified for a printer
that does not support z-fold operations, the value specified for FIDELITY
in the printer file controls whether the file prints.
ZFOLD
is ignored at run time if it is not specified on a page boundary.
The printer is on a page boundary when no named or constant fields
are processed for a page. After a named or constant field is processed,
the printer is no longer on a page boundary. The printer is on a page
boundary again when a SKIP, SPACE, or ENDPAGE keyword is processed
that causes the printer to move to a new page.
ZFOLD, SKIP,
and SPACE keywords are processed in the following order:
SKIPB
SPACEB
ZFOLD
SPACEA
SKIPA
ZFOLD is in effect only for the record format specified.
For the record format in which ZFOLD is specified, the page size is
changed to the size of the paper-type specified for ZFOLD: ledger
or A3. After records with the specified record format are processed,
the page size for the next record format (if the ZFOLD keyword is
not specified) is the page size specified at the file level (CRTPRTF,
CHGPRTF, or OVRPRTF command).
ZFOLD is in effect for just a
single sheet. If consecutive sheets are to have a z-fold operation
applied, then ZFOLD must be specified for each sheet. Printers can
support a varying maximum number of sheets number of sheets per spooled
file that have had a z-fold operation applied to them. Check your
printer's hardware reference for this information.
The reference
edges supported by a printer vary. Check your printer's hardware reference
for this information.

Example|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A*
A R REC1 ZFOLD(*DEVD *LEDGER)
A*
When REC1 is printed, it is z-folded by the printer's
post processor.
Only one ZFOLD keyword for each record format
is valid at any time. Even with option indicators, specifying more
than one ZFOLD keyword per record format is not valid.
The overflow
line number is recomputed if you specify ZFOLD, because the page size
is either ledger or A3. The new overflow line number maintains the
distance between the overflow line and the bottom of the page as specified
in the printer file. The overflow number specified in the printer
file will be restored when processing is complete for ZFOLD. So if
the file level specifies an overflow line which is 1" from the bottom
of the page, the overflow line for a page on which ZFOLD is specified
is also 1" from the bottom of the page.
Refer to your printer's
documentation for additional information about the z-fold operation.
Option
indicators are valid for this keyword.
Note: Use
of this DDS keyword causes an IBM® i spooled file to be
generated so that it is not correctly printed when sending the spooled
file to MVS™. The spooled file
does not print and is held on the output queue by PSF/MVS.