Expressions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Language elements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements

Expressions
An expression specifies a value.
Authorization: The use of some of the expressions,
such as a scalar-fullselect, sequence-reference, function-invocation,
or cast-specification may require having the appropriate authorization.
For these expressions, the privileges held by the authorization ID
of the statement must include the following authorization:global variable. For information about authorization considerations,
see Global variables.
scalar-fullselect. For information about authorization
considerations, see Queries.
sequence-reference. The authorization to reference the
sequence. For information about authorization considerations, see Notes.
function-invocation. The authorization to execute a user-defined
function. For information about authorization considerations, see Function invocation.
array-element-specification. The authorization
to reference an array type. For information about authorization considerations,
see GRANT (type privileges).
cast-specification. The authorization to reference a user-defined
type. For information about authorization considerations, see CAST specification.

operator +  - function-invocation(expression)constantcolumn-namevariablespecial-registerscalar-fullselectlabeled-durationarray-constructorarray-element-specificationcase-expressioncast-specificationOLAP-specificationrow-change-expressionsequence-referenceXMLCAST-specification
operator:
CONCAT ∥  /  *  **  +  - 

Without operators
If no operators are used, the result of the expression is the specified
value.
With arithmetic operators
If arithmetic operators are used, the result of the expression
is a number derived from the application of the operators to the values
of the operands.
With the concatenation operator
If the concatenation operator (CONCAT or ||) is used, the
result of the expression is a string.
Scalar fullselect
A scalar fullselect as supported in an expression is a
fullselect, enclosed in parentheses, that returns a single row consisting
of a single column value. If the fullselect does not return a row,
the result of the expression is the null value. If the select list
element is an expression that is simply a column name, the result
column name is based on the name of the column. Otherwise, the result
column is unnamed.
Datetime operands and durations
Datetime values can be incremented, decremented, and subtracted.
These operations may involve decimal numbers called durations.
A duration is a positive or negative number representing an
interval of time.
Datetime arithmetic in SQL
The only arithmetic operations that can be performed on
datetime values are addition and subtraction. If a datetime value
is the operand of addition, the other operand must be a duration.
Precedence of operations
Expressions within parentheses are evaluated first. When
the order of evaluation is not specified by parentheses, exponentiation
is applied after prefix operators (such as -, unary minus) and before
multiplication and division. Multiplication and division are applied
before addition and subtraction. Operators at the same precedence
level are applied from left to right.
ARRAY constructor
The ARRAY constructor returns an array specified by a list
of expressions or a fullselect.
ARRAY element specification
The ARRAY element specification returns the element from
an array specified by expression.
CASE expression
CASE expressions allow an expression to be selected based
on the evaluation of one or more conditions.
CAST specification
The CAST specification returns the cast operand (the first
operand) cast to the type specified by the data-type.
OLAP specifications
On-Line Analytical Processing (OLAP) specifications provide
the ability to return ranking, row numbering, and other aggregate
function information as a scalar value in a query result.
ROW CHANGE expression
A ROW CHANGE expression returns a token or a timestamp
that represents the last change to a row.
Sequence reference
A sequence is referenced by using the NEXT VALUE and PREVIOUS
VALUE expressions specifying the name of the sequence.
XMLCAST specification
The XMLCAST specification returns the cast operand (the
first operand) cast to the XML data-type.

Parent topic: Language elements