Delete Credentials Cache File (DLTKRBCCF)

Delete Credentials Cache File (DLTKRBCCF)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Delete Credentials Cache File (DLTKRBCCF) command is used to delete a Kerberos credentials cache file.

Restrictions:

The Network Authentication Service Commands and APIs support job environments for most EBCDIC CCSIDs. CCSID 290 and 5026 are not supported because of the variance of lower-case letters a to z.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
CCF | Credentials cache file | Path name, *DFT, *EXPIRED | Optional, Positional 1
EXPTIME | Expired time | Integer, 0 | Optional

Top

Credentials cache file (CCF)

Specifies the Kerberos credentials cache file to be deleted.

*DFT
The default credentials cache file for the current user is used. If the KRB5CCNAME environment variable is set, this is the name of the default cache. Otherwise, the name is obtained from the file specified by the _EUV_SEC_KRB5CCNAME_FILE environment variable. If this environment variable is not set, the name is obtained from the krb5ccname in the HOME directory. If this file does not exist or if there is no default credentials cache name set in the file, a new credentials cache file is created.

*EXPIRED
All credentials cache files that contain expired tickets which have been expired longer than the value specified for the Expired time (EXPTIME) parameter will be deleted.

path-name
Specify the path name of the stream file which is the credentials cache file to delete.

Top

Expired time (EXPTIME)

Specifies that all the credentials cache files containing expired tickets be deleted if the tickets have been expired at least as long as the expired time value.

Note: This parameter is ignored if the Credentials cache file (CCF) parameter has any value other than *EXPIRED.

0
All tickets must be deleted. The tickets could have just expired or could have been expired for a period of time.

integer
Specify the minimum number of minutes that all tickets in the credentials files must have been expired. If any tickets are not expired or expired less than the specified number of minutes ago, the credentials cache file is not deleted.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Deleting a Default Credentials Cache File

DLTKRBCCF CCF(*DFT)

This command deletes the default credentials cache.

Example 2: Deleting Credential Cache Files that Contain Only Expired Tickets

DLTKRBCCF CCF(*EXPIRED) EXPTIME(150)

This command deletes all credentials cache file that contain tickets which expired at least 150 minutes (two hours and thirty minutes) ago.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPFC608
The default credential cache file name cannot be determined.

CPFC609
The principal from credential cache file &1 cannot be retrieved.

CPFC612
The credentials cache &1 cannot be deleted.

CPFC613
The credentials cache directory cannot be read.

CPFC614
The ticket from credentials cache &1 cannot be retrieved.

Top