Datetime operands and durations

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Expressions > Expressions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Expressions

Datetime operands and durations
Datetime values can be incremented, decremented, and subtracted.
These operations may involve decimal numbers called durations.
A duration is a positive or negative number representing an
interval of time.
There are four types of durations:
Labeled durations
The form a labeled duration is as follows:labeled-duration:
function(expression)constantcolumn-namevariableYEARYEARSMONTHMONTHSDAYDAYSHOURHOURSMINUTEMINUTESSECONDSECONDSMICROSECONDMICROSECONDS
A labeled duration represents a specific
unit of time as expressed by a number (which can be the result of
an expression) followed by one of the seven duration keywords: YEARS,
MONTHS, DAYS, HOURS, MINUTES, SECONDS, or MICROSECONDS1. The number specified
is converted as if it were assigned to a DECIMAL(15,0) number, except for SECONDS which uses DECIMAL(27,12) to allow
0 to 12 digits of fractional seconds to be included. The MICROSECONDS
duration returns 6 digits of fractional seconds.
A labeled
duration can only be used as an operand of an arithmetic operator
in which the other operand is a value of data type DATE, TIME, or
TIMESTAMP. Thus, the expression HIREDATE + 2 MONTHS + 14 DAYS is valid
whereas the expression HIREDATE + (2 MONTHS + 14 DAYS) is not. In
both of these expressions, the labeled durations are 2 MONTHS and
14 DAYS.

Date duration
A date
duration represents a number of years, months, and days, expressed
as a DECIMAL(8,0) number. To be properly interpreted, the number
must have the format yyyymmdd, where yyyy represents
the number of years, mm the number of months, and dd the
number of days. The result of subtracting one date value from another,
as in the expression HIREDATE - BRTHDATE, is a date duration.
Time duration
A time
duration represents a number of hours, minutes, and seconds, expressed
as a DECIMAL(6,0) number. To be properly interpreted, the number must
have the format hhmmss where hh represents the number
of hours, mm the number of minutes, and ss the number
of seconds. The result of subtracting one time value from another
is a time duration.
Timestamp duration
A timestamp
duration represents a number of years, months, days, hours, minutes,
seconds, and fractional seconds, expressed as a DECIMAL(14+s,s)
number, where s is the number of digits of fractional seconds
ranging from 0 to 12. To be properly interpreted, the number must
have the format yyyymmddhhmmss.zzzzzzzzzzzz, where yyyy,
mm, dd, hh, mm, ss, and zzzzzzzzzzzz represent, respectively,
the number of years, months, days, hours, minutes, seconds, and fractional
seconds. The result of subtracting one timestamp value from another
is a timestamp duration with scale that matches the maximum timestamp
precision of the timestamp operands.

Parent topic: Expressions

1 Note that
the singular form of these keywords is also acceptable: YEAR, MONTH,
DAY, HOUR, MINUTE, SECOND, and MICROSECOND.