Allocating data queues

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Communicating between programs and procedures > Using data queues > Using data queues

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Communicating between programs and procedures > Using data queues

Allocating data queues
If all users of a data queue allocate it before using it, this
helps to ensure that a data queue is not accessed by more than one job at
a time.
If your application requires that a data queue is not accessed
by more than one job at a time, it should be coded to include an Allocate
Object (ALCOBJ) command before using a data queue. The data queue
should then be deallocated using the Deallocate Object (DLCOBJ) command
when the application is finished using it.
The ALCOBJ command does not,
by itself, restrict another job from sending or receiving data from a data
queue or clearing a data queue. However, if all applications are coded to
include the ALCOBJ command before any use of a data queue, the allocation
of a data queue already allocated to another job will fail, preventing the
data queue from use by more than one job at a time.
When
an allocation fails because the data queue is already allocated to another
job, the system issues error message CPF1002. The Monitor
Message (MONMSG) command can be used in the application program
or procedure to monitor for this message and to respond to the error message.
Possible responses include sending a message to the user and attempting to
allocate the data queue again.
A data queue can be changed
to indicate that IBM-supplied operations enforce a lock on a data queue. Before V6R1, locks placed on a data queue
by the ALCOBJ function are ignored by IBM-supplied operations. Performance
of the data queue can be impacted with the use of this attribute to enforce
data queue locks. See the Change Data Queue (QMHQCDQ) API for
information about how to change a data queue to enforce data queue locks and
to obtain details on the locks to be used for the various data queue operations.

Parent topic: Using data queues

Related tasks
Monitoring for messages in a CL program or procedure

Related information
Allocate Object (ALCOBJ) command
Deallocate Object (DLCOBJ) command
Monitor Message (MONMSG) command
Change Data Queue (QMHQCDQ) API