Renaming objects

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Objects and libraries

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries

Renaming objects
The Rename Object (RNMOBJ) command renames
objects. You can rename an object only if you have object management
authority for the object and update and execute authority for the
library containing the object.
To rename an authorization list, you must have authorization
list management authority, and both update and read authority for
library QSYS.
The following objects cannot be renamed:

Class-of-service descriptions (*COSD)
Cluster resource group (*CRG)
Data dictionaries (*DTADCT)
DBCS font tables (*IGCTBL)
Display station message queues (*MSGQ)
Documents (*DOC)
Exit Registration (*EXITRG)
Folders (*FLR)
Job schedules (*JOBSCD)
Journals (*JRN)
Journal receivers (*JRNRCV)
Mode descriptions (*MODD)
Network Server Configuration (*NWSCFG)
Network Server Description (*NWSD)
SQL packages (*SQLPKG)
SQL XML schema repository (*SQLXSR)
System/36 machine descriptions (*S36)
The system history log (QHST)
The system library, QSYS, and the temporary library, QTEMP
The system operator message queue (QSYSOPR)
Time zone description (*TIMZON)
User-defined SQL type (*SQLUDT)
User profiles (*USRPRF)

Also, you cannot rename an output queue unless it is empty.
You should not rename IBM-supplied commands because the licensed programs
also use IBM-supplied commands.
To rename an object, you must
specify the current name of the object, the name to which the object
is to be renamed, and the object type.
The following RNMOBJ
command renames the object ORDERL to ORDFILL:
RNMOBJ OBJ(QGPL/ORDERL) OBJTYPE(*FILE) NEWOBJ(ORDFILL)
You cannot specify a qualified name for the new object
name because the object remains in the same library. If the object
you want to rename is in use when you issue the Rename Object
(RNMOBJ) command, the command runs, but does not rename
the object. As a result, the system sends you a message.
When
you rename objects, you should be careful not to rename objects that
other objects depend on. For example, CL programs depend on the command
definitions of the commands used in the program to be named the same
at run time as they were at compile time. Therefore, if the command
definition is renamed in between these two times, the program cannot
be run because the commands will not be found. Similarly, any application
program you write depends on certain objects being named the same
at both times.
You cannot rename a library that contains a journal,
journal receiver, data dictionary, cluster resource group, or SQL
package.
An object referring to another object may be dependent
on the object and library names (even though *LIBL can be specified
for the library name). Therefore, if you rename an object, you should
change any references to it in other objects.
If you rename
a physical or logical file, the members in the file are not renamed.
However, you can use the Rename Member (RNMM) command to rename a
physical or logical file member.
Note: You should be careful
when renaming objects in the system library QSYS. These objects are
necessary for the system to perform effectively and the system must
be able to find the objects. This is also true for some of the objects
in the general-purpose library QGPL.

Parent topic: Objects and libraries

Related reference
Moving objects from one library to another

Related information
Rename Object (RNMOBJ) command