Display Debug (DSPDBG)

Display Debug (DSPDBG)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Display Debug (DSPDBG) command shows the current status of debug mode. It shows:

- The call stack, indicating which programs are currently being debugged

- The instruction number of the calling instruction or the instruction number of each breakpoint at which a program is stopped

- The program recursion level

Programs that are in debug mode but have not been called are also shown.

Restrictions:

- You can use this command only in debug mode. To start debug mode, refer to the Start Debug (STRDBG) command.

- You cannot use this command if you are servicing another job, and that job is on a job queue, or is being held, suspended, or ended.

- You cannot use this command to show the procedures of a bound program on the stack. Use the Display Job (DSPJOB) command to show those procedures.

- You cannot use this command to show bound programs that are being debugged.

- You cannot use this command to show unbound programs compiled with the *SRCDBG or *LSTDBG compiler option that are in debug mode initiated with the OPMSRC(*YES) option of the STRDBG command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
OUTPUT | Output | *, *PRINT | Optional, Positional 1

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether the output from the command is displayed at the requesting work station or printed with the job's spooled output.

*
The output is displayed (if requested by an interactive job) or printed with the job's spooled output (if requested by a batch job).

*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output.

Top

Examples

DSPDBG

If entered interactively, this command shows the current attributes of debug mode at the display station. Also shown are the breakpoints at which any of the programs being debugged are stopped, the recursion levels of the programs that are currently active, and the names of the programs that have not been called.

Top

Error messages

None

Top