PRINT (Print) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

PRINT (Print) keyword for display files

You use this file-level or record-level keyword
to specify that the workstation user can press the Print key to print
the current display.

See System/36 environment considerations for display files for
special considerations when you specify the PRINT keyword in files
that are used in the System/36 environment.
The
format of the keyword is: PRINT[(response-indicator ['text']) ∨ (*PGM) ∨
  ([library-name/]printer-file-name)]
The
following four examples illustrate the four ways you can specify the
PRINT keyword:

PRINT

The IBM® i operating
system spools the output to printer file QSYSPRT unless you specify
another printer file for the workstation on the PRTFILE parameter
on the CRTDEVDSP or CHGDEVDSP commands. See PRINT keyword without parameter values.

PRINT(01 'User presses Print key')

Your program is given control and decides what to do (for example,
produce formatted printer output). The response indicator is set on.
No data is sent from the device.

PRINT(*PGM)

Control returns to your program when the Print key is pressed.

PRINT(LIB1/PRINTFILE1)

The IBM i operating
system spools the output to the specified printer file (which can
be defined through DDS or on the PRTFILE parameter on the CRTDEVDSP
or CHGDEVDSP commands). An Override with Printer File (OVRPRTF) command,
if in effect before the printer file is opened (when the Print key
is pressed), can change the printer device name.

Further considerations of the ways to specify the PRINT
keyword are discussed in the following sections.
If you specify
the PRINT keyword in any form, the workstation user can print a display
containing the message help. In this case, the print operation is
performed as if the PRINT keyword were specified with no parameters.

PRINT keyword without parameter values
for the local workstationThe IBM i operating system spools
the output to the specified printer file (which can be defined through
DDS or on the PRTFILE parameter on the CRTDEVDSP or CHGDEVDSP commands).
Nondisplay
fields appear as blanks. Duplicated characters entered by pressing
the Dup key appear as asterisks (*). Display attributes appear as
blanks. If the print function cannot be performed successfully, the IBM i operating system attempts
to complete the print function using the printer file specified on
the PRTFILE parameter on the CRTDEVDSP or the CHGDEVDSP command that
is used to describe the display device to the system.
For workstation
printers attached through the workstation controller, a message indicating
that there is a problem is sent to the workstation user requesting
the print function. The workstation user can make the printer ready
or press the Reset key. To cancel a print request before it is complete,
the workstation user can press and hold the Shift key, then press
the Print key.
Note: After the current display is printed, the
paper is advanced twice the number of lines as in the current display
size (48 lines for a 24 x 80 display, and 54 lines for a 27 x 132
display).

PRINT keyword without parameter values for the remote
workstationThe IBM i program
attempts to print the display image on the associated workstation
printer without sending the data through the system. The associated
workstation printer is the printer device specified on the PRINTER
parameter of the CRTDEVDSP or CHGDEVDSP command that is used to describe
the local display device to the system.
If the printer is not
ready when the Print key is pressed, no specific message is sent to
the user. The workstation requesting the print function remains inoperable
until the printer is made ready, or until the print request is canceled
(by using the shifted Print key). Note: After the current display
is printed, the paper is advanced the same number of lines as in the
current display size (24 lines for a 24 x 80 display, and 27 lines
for a 27 x 132 display).

Option indicators are valid
for this keyword.

Example: PRINT keyword with no parameter valuesThe
following example shows how to specify the PRINT keyword with no parameter
values.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A PRINT
00020A R RECORD1
A

Example: PRINT keyword with a response indicator or
*PGM special valueIf you specify the PRINT keyword with
a response indicator, the IBM i operating
system returns control to your program with the specified response
indicator set on. No data is received from the device. The keyboard
is locked until your program sends another output operation to the
display file. There is no difference in the print function between
local and remote workstations. If you specify *PGM, the IBM i operating system returns
control to your program. The only difference between these two forms
is the response indicator; all other processing is the same.
The
optional text for the response indicator form is included on the computer
printout created at program compilation time to explain the intended
use of the indicator. This text functions only as a comment. The single
quotation marks are required. If you specify more than 50 characters
between the single quotation marks, the text is truncated to 50 characters
on the program computer printout.
The following example shows
how to specify the PRINT keyword with a response indicator.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A PRINT(01 'User presses Print key')
00020A R RECORD1
AThe following example shows how to specify the
PRINT keyword with the *PGM special value.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A PRINT(*PGM)
00020A R RECORD1
A

Example: PRINT keyword with a specified printer fileThe IBM i program reads the
display buffer and prints the display image using the specified printer
file. The printer file that you specify as a parameter value for this
keyword can be either an externally described or a program-described
file. It also can be either spooled or nonspooled. If you specify
an externally described printer file, it must contain a record format
with the same name as the file.
The printer file must exist
and be authorized to the user of the display when the Print key is
pressed. This also applies to the library name if it is specified.
If the IBM i operating
system is unable to perform the print function on the specified printer
file, it attempts to use the printer file specified on the PRTFILE
parameter of the CRTDEVDSP or the CHGDEVDSP command. SPOOL(*YES) should
be specified on the CRTPRTF or CHGPRTF command to prevent the keyboard
from locking.
If you do not specify the library name, the current
library list at program run time is used.
The following example
shows how to specify that the display is to be directed to printer
file, LIB1/PRINTFILE1.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A PRINT(LIB1/PRINTFILE1)
00020A R RECORD1
A