Defining lists within lists

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands > Defining lists for parameters > Defining lists for parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands > Defining lists for parameters

Defining lists within lists
A list within a list can be either a list that can be specified
more than once for a parameter (simple or mixed list), or a list that can
be specified for a value within a mixed list.
The following is an example of lists within a list.
STMT((START RESPND) (ADDDSP CONFRM))
The outside set of parentheses enclose the list that can be
specified for the parameter (the outer list) while each set of inner parentheses
encloses a list within a list (an inner list).
In the following example,
a mixed list is defined within a simple list. A mixed list is specified,
and the MAX value on the PARM statement is greater than 1; therefore, the
mixed list can be specified up to the number of times specified on the MAX
parameter.
PARM KWD(PARM1) TYPE(LIST1) MAX(5)
LIST1: ELEM TYPE(*CHAR) LEN(10)
ELEM TYPE(*DEC) LEN(3 0)
In this example, the two elements can be specified up to five
times. When a value is entered for this parameter, it could appear as follows:
PARM1((VAL1 1.0) (VAR2 2.0) (VAR3 3.0))
In the following example, a simple list is specified as a value
in a mixed list. In this example, the MAX value on the ELEM statement is
greater than 1; therefore, the element can be repeated up to the number of
times specified on the MAX parameter.
PARM KWD(PARM2) TYPE(LIST2)
LIST2: ELEM TYPE(*CHAR) LEN(10) MAX(5)
ELEM TYPE(*DEC) LEN(3 0)
In this example, the first element can be specified up to five
times, but the second element can be specified only once. When a value is
entered for this parameter, it could appear as follows.
PARM2((NAME1 NAME2 NAME3) 123.0)
When lists within lists are passed to the command processing
program, the format varies depending on whether you are using CL or high-level
language (HLL), or REXX.

Using CL or other HLLs for lists within lists
When a command is run using CL or another high-level
language (HLL), a list within a list is passed to the command processing program
in this format.
Using REXX for lists within lists
When a command is run using REXX, a list within a list is passed to
the command processing program just as the values are entered for the parameters.
Trailing blanks are not passed.

Parent topic: Defining lists for parameters