%DATA options for the DATA-INTO operation code

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes > DATA-INTO (Parse a Document into a Variable) > DATA-INTO (Parse a Document into a Variable)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes > DATA-INTO (Parse a Document into a Variable)

%DATA options for the DATA-INTO operation code

Several options are available for customizing the DATA-INTO operation.
The options are specified as the second parameter of the %DATA built-in
function. The parameter can be a constant or a variable expression.
The options are specified in the form 'opt1=val1 opt2=val2'.

See %DATA (document {:options}) for more information on how to specify
the options.

The path option specifies
where to locate the desired information within the document.

The doc option specifies
whether the first parameter of the %DATA built-in function has an
document, or has the name of a file containing the document.

The ccsid option specifies
the CCSID to be used to parse the document.

The case option specifies
the way that DATA-INTO should interpret the element and attribute names
in the DATA document when searching for names that match the the
RPG field names and the names in the path option.

The trim option specifies
whether you want blanks, tabs and line-end characters to be trimmed
from the data before it is assigned to your RPG variables.

The allowmissing option specifies
how the RPG runtime should handle the situation when the document
does not have enough information to provide data
for all the RPG subfields of a data structure.

The allowextra option specifies
how the RPG runtime should handle the situation when the document
has additional information that is not needed to set
the RPG variable.

The data
subfield option specifies the name of the extra subfield
used to handle the situation where there is text data for an item
that matches an RPG data structure.

The countprefix option
specifies the prefix for the names of the additional
subfields that receive the number of RPG array elements set by the
DATA-INTO operation.

Parent topic: DATA-INTO (Parse a Document into a Variable)