INSERT

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

INSERT
The INSERT statement inserts rows into a table or view.
Inserting a row into a view also inserts the row into the table on
which the view is based if no INSTEAD OF INSERT trigger is defined
on this view. If such a trigger is defined, the trigger will be activated
instead.
There are three forms of this statement:
The INSERT using VALUES form is used to insert one or more
rows into the table or view using the values provided or referenced.
The INSERT using fullselect form is used to insert one
or more rows into the table or view using values from other tables
or views.
The INSERT using n ROWS form is used to insert multiple
rows into the table or view using the values provided in a host-structure-array.

InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared with the exception of the
n ROWS form, which must be a static statement embedded in an application
program. The n ROWS form is not allowed in a REXX procedure.
AuthorizationThe privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
For the table or view identified in the statement: The INSERT privilege on the table or view, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the table
or view

Database administrator authority

If a fullselect is specified, the
privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement must also
include one of the following:
For each table or view identified in the fullselect:
The SELECT privilege on the table or view, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the table
or view

Database administrator authority

For information about the system authorities corresponding
to SQL privileges, see Corresponding
System Authorities When Checking Privileges to a Table or View.
SyntaxINSERT INTOtable-nameview-name(,column-name)include-columnsOVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUEOVERRIDING USER VALUEVALUES,expressionDEFAULTNULL(,expressionDEFAULTNULL)isolation-clauseinsert-multiple-rowsisolation-clauseWITHRECURSIVE,common-table-expressionfullselectisolation-clauseinclude-columnsINCLUDE(,column-nameFORCOLUMNsystem-column-namedata-type)insert-multiple-rowsintegervariableROWSVALUES(host-structure-array)isolation–clauseWITHNCURCSKEEP LOCKSRSlock-clauseRRlock-clauselock-clauseUSE AND KEEP EXCLUSIVE LOCKS
data-typebuilt-in-typedistinct-type
built-in-typeSMALLINTINTEGERINTBIGINTDECIMALDECNUMERICNUM(5,0)(integer,0, integer)FLOAT(53)(integer)REALDOUBLEPRECISIONDECFLOAT(34)(16)CHARACTERCHAR(1)(integer)CHARACTERCHARVARYINGVARCHAR(integer)allocate-clauseFOR BIT DATAFOR SBCS DATAFOR MIXED DATAccsid-clauseCLOBCHAR LARGE OBJECTCHARACTER LARGE OBJECT(1M)(integerKMG)allocate-clauseFOR SBCS DATAFOR MIXED DATAccsid-clauseGRAPHIC(1)(integer)GRAPHIC VARYINGVARGRAPHIC(integer)allocate-clauseDBCLOB(1M)(integerKMG)allocate-clauseccsid-clauseNATIONAL CHARACTERNATIONAL CHARNCHAR(1)(integer)NATIONAL CHARACTERNATIONAL CHARNCHARVARYINGNVARCHAR(integer)allocate-clauseNATIONAL CHARACTERNCHARLARGE OBJECTNCLOB(1M)(integerKMG)allocate-clausenormalize-clauseBINARY(1)(integer)BINARY VARYINGVARBINARY(integer)allocate-clauseBLOBBINARY LARGE OBJECT(1M)(integerKMG)allocate-clauseDATETIME(0)TIMESTAMP(6)(integer)DATALINK(200)(integer)allocate-clauseccsid-clauseROWIDXMLallocate-clauseccsid-clauseallocate-clauseALLOCATE(integer)ccsid-clauseCCSIDintegernormalize-clausenormalize-clauseNOT NORMALIZEDNORMALIZED
DescriptionINTO table-name or view-name
Identifies the object of the
insert operation. The name must identify a table or view that exists
at the current server, but it must not identify a catalog table, a
view of a catalog table, or a view that is not insertable. For an
explanation of insertable views, see CREATE VIEW.
(column-name,…)
Specifies
the columns for which insert values are provided. Each name must be
a name that identifies a column of the table or view. The same column
must not be identified more than once. If extended indicator variables
are not enabled, a view column that is not updatable must not be identified.
If extended indicator variables are not enabled and the object of
the insert operation is a view with such columns, a list of column
names must be specified and the list must not identify those columns.
For an explanation of updatable columns in views, see CREATE VIEW. Omission of the column list is
an implicit specification of a list in which every column of the table
or view is identified in left-to-right order. Any columns defined
with the hidden attribute are omitted. This list is established when
the statement is prepared and, therefore, does not include columns
that were added to a table after the statement was prepared.
If
the INSERT statement is embedded in an application and the referenced
table or view exists at create program time, the statement is prepared
at create program time. Otherwise, the statement is prepared at the
first successful execute of the INSERT statement.

include-columns
Specifies a set of columns that are included, along with the columns
of table-name or view-name, in the intermediate result
table of the INSERT statement when it is nested in the FROM clause
of a fullselect. The include-columns are appended to the end
of the list of columns specified by table-name or view-name. INCLUDE
Specifies a list of columns to be included in the intermediate
result table of the INSERT statement. This clause can only be specified
if the INSERT statement is nested in the FROM clause of a fullselect.
column-name
Specifies a column of the intermediate result table of the INSERT
statement. The name cannot be the same as the name of another include
column or a column in table-name or view-name.
FOR COLUMN system-column-name
Provides an IBM® i name
for the column. The name must not be the same as any column-name or system-column-name in
the INCLUDE column list or in table-name or view-name.
data-type
Specifies the data type of the include column. For a description
of data-type, see CREATE TABLE. If
a DATALINK data-type is used, FILE LINK CONTROL is not allowed.

OVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUE or OVERRIDING USER VALUE
Specifies whether system generated values or user-specified values
for a ROWID, identity, or row change timestamp column are used. If
OVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUE is specified, the implicit or explicit list
of columns for the INSERT statement must contain a ROWID,
identity, or row change timestamp column defined as GENERATED
ALWAYS. If OVERRIDING USER VALUE is specified, the implicit or explicit
list of columns for the INSERT statement must contain a column defined
as either GENERATED ALWAYS or GENERATED BY DEFAULT. OVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUE
Specifies that the value specified in the VALUES clause or produced
by a fullselect for a ROWID, identity, or row change
timestamp column that is defined as GENERATED ALWAYS is used.
A system-generated value is not inserted.
If a value for a row-begin, row-end, transaction-start-ID,
or generated expression column is provided, it must be DEFAULT.
OVERRIDING USER VALUE
Specifies that the value specified in the VALUES clause or produced
by a fullselect for a column that is defined as either GENERATED ALWAYS
or GENERATED BY DEFAULT is ignored. Instead, a system-generated value
is inserted, overriding the user-specified value.

If neither OVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUE nor OVERRIDING
USER VALUE is specified:
A value other than DEFAULT cannot be specified for a ROWID, identity,
row change timestamp, row-begin, row-end, transaction-start-ID,
or generated expression column that is defined as GENERATED ALWAYS.
A value can be specified for a ROWID, identity, or row change
timestamp column that is defined as GENERATED BY DEFAULT. If a value
is specified that value is assigned to the column. However, a value
can be inserted into a ROWID column defined BY DEFAULT only if the
specified value is a valid row ID value that was previously generated
by DB2® for z/OS® or DB2 for
i. When a value is inserted
into an identity or row change timestamp column defined BY DEFAULT,
the database manager does not verify that the specified value is a
unique value for the column unless the identity or row change timestamp
column is the sole key in a unique constraint or unique index. Without
a unique constraint or unique index, the database manager can guarantee
unique values only among the set of system-generated values as long
as NO CYCLE is in effect. If a value is not specified the database
manager generates a new value.

VALUES
Specifies
one or more new rows to be inserted. Each variable in the clause
must identify a host structure or variable that is declared in accordance
with the rules for declaring host structures and variables. In the
operational form of the statement, a reference to a host structure
is replaced by a reference to each of its variables. For further information
about variables and structures, see References to host variables and Host structures.
The number of values for each
row in the VALUES clause must equal the number of names in the implicit
or explicit column list and the columns identified in the INCLUDE
clause. The first value is inserted in the first column in the list,
the second value in the second column, and so on.
expression
An expression of
the type described in Expressions, that
does not include an aggregate function or column name. If expression is
a variable, the variable can identify a
structure. If extended indicator variables are enabled and the expression
is not a single variable, the extended indicator variable values of
DEFAULT and UNASSIGNED must not be used for that expression.
DEFAULT
Specifies
that the default value is assigned to a column. The value that is
inserted depends on how the column was defined, as follows: If the column is defined as a generated column based
on an expression, the column value is generated by the database manager,
based on that expression.
If the column is a ROWID, an identity column, a row change timestamp
column, a row-begin column, a row-end column, or a
transaction-start-ID column, the database manager will generate
a new value.
If the WITH DEFAULT clause is used, the default inserted is as
defined for the column (see default-clause in column-definition in CREATE TABLE).
If the WITH DEFAULT clause or the NOT NULL clause is not used,
the value inserted is NULL.
If the NOT NULL clause is used and the WITH DEFAULT clause is
not used or DEFAULT NULL is used, the DEFAULT keyword cannot be specified
for that column.

DEFAULT must be specified for a ROWID or a
generated column that was defined as GENERATED ALWAYS unless
OVERRIDING USER VALUE is specified to indicate that any user-specified
value will be ignored and a unique system-generated value will be
inserted.

NULL
Specifies
the value for a column is the null value. NULL should only be specified
for nullable columns.

WITH common-table-expression
Specifies a common table expression. For an explanation of common
table expression, see common-table-expression.
fullselect
Specifies
a set of new rows in the form of the result table of a fullselect.
If the result table is empty, SQLSTATE is set to '02000'. For an
explanation of fullselect, see fullselect.
When the base object of the
INSERT and a base object of any subselect in the fullselect are
the same table, the select statement is completely evaluated before
any rows are inserted.
The number of columns in the result table
must equal the number of names implicitly or explicitly specified
in the column-name list. The value of the
first column of the result is inserted in the first column in the
list, the second value in the second column, and so on.

isolation-clause
Specifies the isolation level to be used for this statement. WITH
Introduces
the isolation level, which may be one of:
RR Repeatable read
RS Read stability
CS Cursor stability
UR Uncommitted read
NC No commit

If isolation-clause is
not specified the default isolation is used. See isolation-clause for a description of how the default
is determined.

insert-multiple-rowsinteger or variable ROWS
Specifies the number of rows
to be inserted. If a variable is specified,
it must be numeric with zero scale and cannot include an indicator
variable.
VALUES (host-structure-array)
Specifies a set of new rows
in the form of an array of host structures. The host-structure-array must
be declared in the program in accordance with the rules for declaring
host structure arrays. A parameter marker may not be used
in place of the host-structure-array name.
The number of variables in the host structure must equal the number
of names in the implicit or explicit column list and the columns identified
in the INCLUDE clause. The first host structure in the array corresponds
to the first row, the second host structure in the array corresponds
to the second row, and so on. In addition, the first variable in the
host structure corresponds with the first column of the row, the second
variable in the host structure corresponds with the second column
of the row, and so on.
For an explanation of arrays of host
structures see Host structure arrays.

insert-multiple-rows is not allowed if the current
connection is to a non-remote server. insert-multiple-rows is
not allowed in a data change reference in an RPG/400® or PL/I program.
INSERT RulesDefault
Values: The value inserted in any column that is not in the column
list is the default value of the column. Columns without a default
value must be included in the column list. Similarly, if you insert
into a view without an INSTEAD OF INSERT trigger, the default value
is inserted into any column of the base table that is not included
in the view. Hence, all columns of the base table that are not in
the view must have a default value.
Assignment: Insert values are assigned to columns
in accordance with the storage assignment rules described in Language elements.
Validity: Insert operations must obey the following
rules. If they do not, or if any other errors occur during the execution
of the INSERT statement, no rows are inserted unless COMMIT(*NONE)
was specified.
Unique constraints and unique indexes: If the identified
table, or the base table of the identified view, has one or more unique
indexes or unique constraints, each row inserted into the table must
conform to the limitations imposed by those indexes and constraints
(SQLSTATE 23505). All uniqueness checks are effectively made at
the end of the statement unless COMMIT(*NONE) was specified. In the
case of a multiple-row INSERT statement, this would occur after all
rows were inserted. If COMMIT(*NONE) is specified, checking is performed
as each row is inserted.

Check constraints: If
the identified table, or the base table of the identified view, has
one or more check constraints, each check constraint must be true
or unknown for each row inserted into the table (SQLSTATE 23513).The
check constraints are effectively checked at the end of the statement.
In the case of a multiple-row INSERT statement, this would occur after
all rows were inserted.

Views and the CHECK OPTION clause: If a view is identified,
the inserted rows must conform to any applicable CHECK OPTION clause
(SQLSTATE 44000). For more information, see CREATE VIEW.

Triggers: If the identified table or the base table
of the identified view has an insert trigger, the trigger is activated.
A trigger might cause other statements to be executed or raise error
conditions based on the insert values. If the INSERT statement is
used as a data-change-table-reference, an AFTER INSERT trigger
that attempts to modify the inserted rows will cause an error.
Referential Integrity: Each nonnull insert value
of a foreign key must equal some value of the parent key of the parent
table in the relationship.
The referential constraints (other than a referential
constraint with a RESTRICT delete rule) are effectively checked at
the end of the statement. In the case of a multiple-row INSERT statement,
this would occur after all rows were inserted and any associated triggers
were activated.
If the INSERT statement is used as a data-change-table-reference,
any referential constraint that attempts to modify the inserted rows
will cause an error.
XML values: A value that
is inserted into an XML column must be a well-formed XML document.
Inserting rows into a table for which row
or column access control is enforced: When an INSERT statement
is issued for a table for which row or column access control is enforced,
the rules specified in the enabled row permissions or column masks
determine whether the row can be inserted. Typically those rules are
based on the authorization ID of the statement. The following rules
describe how the enabled row permissions and column masks are used
during INSERT:When a column is referenced while deriving the values of a new
row, if that column has an enabled column mask, the masked value is
used to derive the new values. If the object table also has column
access control activated, the column mask that is applied to derive
the new values must return the column itself, not a constant or an
expression. If the column mask does not mask the column to itself,
the new value cannot be used for insert and an error is returned.If
the OVERRIDING USER VALUE clause is specified, the corresponding values
in the new row are ignored, and the above rule for column masks is
not applicable to those values.

If the row can be inserted, and there is a BEFORE INSERT trigger
for the table, the trigger is activated.Within the trigger actions,
the new values for insert can be modified in the transition variables.
When the values return from the trigger, the final values for the
new values are the ones for insert.

A row to be inserted must conform to the enabled row permissions. When
multiple enabled row permissions are defined for a table, a row access
control search condition is derived by application of the logical
OR operator to the search condition in each enabled row permission.
A row that conforms to all enabled row permissions is a row that,
if the row is inserted, can be retrieved back using the row access
control search condition.

If the rows can be inserted and there is an AFTER INSERT trigger
for the table, the trigger is activated.

The preceding rules do not apply to the include-columns.
The include-columns will accept whatever values are assigned
to them, which could be either masked or unmasked values.
Masked
data can be assigned to a variable used as a value for the insert
operation. If an insert violation check constraint does not exist
for the column, the masked data will be inserted in the column and
no error will be issued.
Extended indicator variable usage: If enabled,
indicator variable values other than positive values and 0 (zero)
through -7 must not be set. The DEFAULT and UNASSIGNED extended indicator
variable values must not appear in contexts where they are not supported.
Extended indicator variables: In an INSERT statement,
the extended indicator value of UNASSIGNED has the effect of setting
the column to its default value.
If a target column is not updatable,
it must be assigned the extended indicator variable value of UNASSIGNED,
unless it is a generated column defined as GENERATED
ALWAYS. If the target column is a generated column defined
as GENERATED ALWAYS, then it must be assigned the extended indicator
variable value of DEFAULT or UNASSIGNED.
Extended indicator
variables and insert triggers: No change in the activation of
insert triggers results from the presence of extended indicator variables.
If all columns in the implicit or explicit column list have been assigned
to an extended indicator variable-based value of UNASSIGNED or DEFAULT,
an insert where all columns have their respective DEFAULT values is
attempted, and if successful, the insert trigger is activated.
Extended
indicator variables and deferred error checks: When extended indicator
variables are enabled, validation that would normally be done during
statement preparation to recognize an insert into a non-updatable
column is deferred until the statement is executed.
NotesInsert
operation errors: If an insert value violates any constraints,
or if any other error occurs during the execution of an INSERT statement
and COMMIT(*NONE) was not specified, all changes from this statement
and any triggered SQL statements are rolled back. However, other changes
in the unit of work made prior to the error are not rolled back. If
COMMIT(*NONE) is specified, changes are not rolled back.
Number of rows inserted: After executing an INSERT
statement, the ROW_COUNT statement information item in the SQL Diagnostics
Area (or SQLERRD(3) of the SQLCA) is the number of rows that the database
manager inserted. The ROW_COUNT item does not include the number of
rows that were inserted as a result of a trigger.
For a description
of ROW_COUNT, see GET DIAGNOSTICS. For a description
of the SQLCA, see SQLCA (SQL communication area).
Locking: If COMMIT(*RR), COMMIT(*ALL), COMMIT(*CS),
or COMMIT(*CHG) is specified, one or more exclusive locks are acquired
during the execution of a successful INSERT statement. Until the locks
are released by a commit or rollback operation, an inserted row can
only be accessed by:
The application process that performed the insert
Another application process using COMMIT(*NONE) or COMMIT(*CHG)
through a read-only operation

The locks can prevent other application processes from
performing operations on the table. For further information about
locking, see the description of the COMMIT, ROLLBACK, and LOCK TABLE statements.
Also, see Isolation level and Database Programming.
If
the INSERT is used as a data-change-table-reference where FINAL
TABLE is specified, locks are placed on inserted rows until the SELECT
is complete. These locks may prevent indirect changes to the inserted
rows from within the same job, such as an AFTER TRIGGER attempting
to change an inserted row. These locks are acquired for all isolation
levels, including COMMIT(*NONE).
A maximum of 500 000 000 rows can be inserted or changed
in any single INSERT statement when COMMIT(*RR), COMMIT(*ALL), COMMIT(*CS),
or COMMIT(*CHG) was specified. The number of rows changed includes
any rows inserted, updated, or deleted under the same commitment definition
as a result of a trigger.
Generated columns: A generated column
that is defined as GENERATED ALWAYS should not be specified in the column-list unless
the corresponding entry in the VALUES list is DEFAULT. The user can
specify the OVERRIDING USER VALUE clause to indicate that any user-specified
value will be ignored and the system-generated value
at the time of the INSERT will be inserted into this column.
Inserting into tables with row-begin, row-end,
or transaction start-ID columns: When a row is inserted into a
table with these generated columns (for instance, a system-period
temporal table), the database manager assigns values to the following
columns: A row-begin column is assigned a value that is generated using
a reading of the time-of-day clock during execution of the first data
change statement in the transaction that requires a value to be assigned
to the row-begin or transaction start-ID column in a table, or a row
in a system-period temporal table is deleted. The database manager
ensures uniqueness of the generated values for a row-begin column
across transactions. If multiple rows are inserted within a single
SQL transaction, the values for the row-begin column are the same
for all the rows and are unique from the values generated for the
column for another transaction.
A row-end column is assigned the maximum value for the column
(9999-12-30-00.00.00.000000000000).
A transaction start-ID column is assigned a unique timestamp value
per transaction or the null value. The null value is assigned to the
transaction start-ID column if the column is nullable. Otherwise,
the value is generated using a reading of the time-of-day clock during
execution of the first data change statement in the transaction that
requires a value to be assigned to the row-begin or transaction start-ID
column in a table, or a row in a system-period temporal table is deleted.
If multiple rows are inserted within a single SQL transaction, the
values for the transaction start-ID column are the same for all the
rows and are unique from the values generated for the column for another
transaction.

Inserting into a system-period temporal
table: When a row is inserted into a system-period temporal table,
the database manager assigns values to columns as indicated for tables
with row-begin, row-end, or transaction start-ID columns. Also, when
a row is inserted, no rows are added to the history table associated
with the system-period temporal table.
If the CURRENT TEMPORAL
SYSTEM_TIME special register is set to a non-null value and the value
of the SYSTIME option is YES, the underlying target of the INSERT
statement cannot be a system-period temporal table. This restriction
applies regardless of whether the system-period temporal table is
directly or indirectly referenced.
REXX: Variables
cannot be used in the INSERT statement within a REXX procedure. Instead, the INSERT
must be the object of a PREPARE and EXECUTE using parameter markers.
Syntax alternatives: The following keywords are
synonyms supported for compatibility to prior releases. These keywords
are non-standard and should not be used:
The keyword NONE can be used as a synonym for NC.
The keyword CHG can be used as a synonym for UR.
The keyword ALL can be used as a synonym for RS.

ExamplesExample 1: Insert a new
department with the following specifications into the DEPARTMENT table:
Department number (DEPTNO) is ‘E31'
Department name (DEPTNAME) is ‘ARCHITECTURE'
Managed by (MGRNO) a person with number ‘00390'
Reports to (ADMRDEPT) department ‘E01'.

INSERT INTO DEPARTMENT
VALUES ('E31', 'ARCHITECTURE', '00390', 'E01')

Example 2: Insert a new department into the DEPARTMENT
table as in example 1, but do not assign a manager to the new department.
INSERT INTO DEPARTMENT (DEPTNO, DEPTNAME, ADMRDEPT)
VALUES ('E31', 'ARCHITECTURE', 'E01')

Example 3: Create a table MA_EMPPROJACT with
the same columns as the EMPPROJACT table. Populate MA_EMPPROJACT with
the rows from the EMPPROJACT table with a project number (PROJNO)
starting with the letters ‘MA'.
CREATE TABLE MA_EMPPROJACT LIKE EMPPROJACT

INSERT INTO MA_EMPPROJACT
SELECT * FROM EMPPROJACT
WHERE SUBSTR(PROJNO, 1, 2) = 'MA'

Example 4: Use a Java program
statement to add a skeleton project to the PROJECT table on the
connection context 'ctx'. Obtain the project number (PROJNO),
project name (PROJNAME), department number (DEPTNO), and responsible
employee (RESPEMP) from host variables. Use the current date as the
project start date (PRSTDATE). Assign a NULL value to the remaining
columns in the table.
#sql [ctx] { INSERT INTO PROJECT (PROJNO, PROJNAME, DEPTNO, RESPEMP, PRSTDATE)
VALUES (:PRJNO, :PRJNM, :DPTNO, :REMP, CURRENT DATE) };

Example 5: Insert two new departments using one
statement into the DEPARTMENT table as in example 2, but do not assign
a manager to the new departments.
INSERT INTO DEPARTMENT (DEPTNO, DEPTNAME, ADMRDEPT)
VALUES ('B11', 'PURCHASING', 'B01'),
('E41', 'DATABASE ADMINISTRATION', 'E01')

Example 6: In a PL/I program, use a multiple-row
INSERT to add 10 rows to table DEPARTMENT. The host structure array
DEPT contains the data to be inserted.
DCL 1 DEPT(10),
3 DEPT CHAR(3),
3 LASTNAME CHAR(29) VARYING,
3 WORKDEPT CHAR(6),
3 JOB CHAR(3);

EXEC SQL INSERT INTO DEPARTMENT 10 ROWS VALUES (:DEPT);

Example 7: Insert a new project into the EMPPROJACT
table using the Read Uncommitted (UR, CHG) option:
INSERT INTO EMPPROJACT
VALUES ('000140', 'PL2100', 30)
WITH CHG

Example 8: Specify an INSERT statement as the data-change-table-reference within
a SELECT statement. Define an extra include column whose values are
specified in the VALUES clause, which is then used as an ordering
column for the inserted rows.
SELECT inorder, ordernum
FROM FINAL TABLE (INSERT INTO ORDERS (CUSTNO)
INCLUDE(INSERTNUM INTEGER)
VALUES (:cnum1, 1),
(:cnum2, 2)) InsertedOrders
ORDER BY insertnum

Parent topic: Statements