Initialization Subroutine

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > Procedures and the Program Logic Cycle > RPG Cycle and other implicit Logic > Program Cycle > Detailed RPG IV Program Cycle > Detailed RPG IV Program Cycle

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > Procedures and the Program Logic Cycle > RPG Cycle and other implicit Logic > Program Cycle > Detailed RPG IV Program Cycle

Initialization Subroutine

Refer to Figure 1 to see a detailed explanation of
the RPG IV initialization subroutine.

The initialization subroutine allows you to process calculation
specifications before 1P output. A specific subroutine that is to
be run at program initialization time can be defined by specifying
*INZSR in factor 1 of the subroutine's BEGSR operation. Only one
subroutine can be defined as an initialization subroutine. It is
called at the end of the program initialization step of the program
cycle (that is, after data structures and subfields are initialized,
external indicators and user data fields are retrieved, global files
are opened, data area data structures, arrays, and tables are loaded,
and PARM result fields moved to factor 1 for *ENTRY PLIST). *INZSR
may not be specified as a file/program error/exception subroutine.

If a program ends with LR off, the initialization subroutine does
not automatically run during the next invocation of that program because
the subroutine is part of the initialization step of the program.
However, if the initialization subroutine does not complete before
an exit is made from the program with LR off, the initialization subroutine
will be re-run at the next invocation of that program.

The initialization subroutine is like any other subroutine in the
program, other than being called at program initialization time.
It may be called using the EXSR or CASxx operations, and it may call
other subroutines or other programs. Any operation that is valid in
a subroutine is valid in the initialization subroutine, with the exception
of the RESET operation. This is because the value used to reset a
variable is not defined until after the initialization subroutine
is run.

Any changes made to a variable during the initialization subroutine
affect the value that the variable is set to on a subsequent RESET
operation. Default values can be defined for fields in record formats
by, for example, setting them in the initialization subroutine and
then using RESET against the record format whenever the default values
are to be used. The initialization subroutine can also retrieve information
such as the current time for 1P output.

There is no *INZSR associated with subprocedures. If a subprocedure
is the first procedure called in a module, the *INZSR of the main
procedure will not be run, although other initialization of global
data will be done. The *INZSR of the main procedure will be run when
the main procedure is called.

Figure 1. Detail Flow of RPG IV Match
Fields, Overflow, and Lookahead Routines

Match Fields Routine

Overflow Routine

Lookahead Routine

Parent topic: Detailed RPG IV Program Cycle