Add Work Station Entry (ADDWSE)

Add Work Station Entry (ADDWSE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Add Work Station Entry (ADDWSE) command adds a work station job entry to the specified subsystem description. Each entry describes one or more work stations that are controlled by the subsystem. The work stations identified in the work station entries are allowed to sign on or enter the subsystem and run jobs.

Restrictions:

- To use this command, you must have:

object operational (*OBJOPR), object management (*OBJMGT), and read (*READ) authority to the specified subsystem description and execute (*EXECUTE) authority to the library containing that subsystem description.

object operational (*OBJOPR) and read (*READ) authority to the job description and execute (*EXECUTE) authority to the library containing that job description.

- Only a user with all object (*ALLOBJ) special authority is allowed to add an entry for which the job description does not exist.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
SBSD | Subsystem description | Qualified object name | Required, Positional 1
Qualifier 1: Subsystem description | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
WRKSTN | Work station name | Generic name, name | Optional, Positional 2
WRKSTNTYPE | Work station type | *ALL, 3179, 3180, 3196, 3197, 3277, 3278, 3279, 3476, 3477, 3486, 3487, 5251, 5291, 5292, 5555, *ASCII, CONS, *CONS, *NONASCII | Optional, Positional 3
JOBD | Job description | Single values: *USRPRF, *SBSD
Other values: Qualified object name | Optional, Positional 4
Qualifier 1: Job description | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
MAXACT | Maximum active jobs | 0-32000, *NOMAX | Optional
AT | Allocation | *SIGNON, *ENTER | Optional

Top

Subsystem description (SBSD)

Specifies the name and library of the subsystem description to which the work station job entry is added.

This is a required parameter.

Qualifier 1: Subsystem description

name
Specify the name of the subsystem description where the work station job entry is being added.
Note: The following IBM-supplied objects are not valid on this parameter:

- QLPINSTALL

- QSYSSBSD

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the thread's library list are searched until a match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the thread is used to locate the object. If no library is specified as the current library for the thread, the QGPL library is used.

name
Specify the library where the subsystem description is located.

Top

Work station name (WRKSTN)

Specifies the name of the work station used by the subsystem. The device description name that was specified in the Create Device Desc (Display) (CRTDEVDSP) command associated with the work station is the name used.

Double-Byte Character Set Considerations: For double-byte character set (DBCS), a work station whose type is 5555 must be specified for either this parameter or the Work station type (WRKSTNTYPE) parameter, but not for both.

generic-name
Specify a generic name. Examples include: DSP*, RMT*,...

Note: Specifying a generic work station name does not result in multiple entries being added, changed, or removed.

name
Specify the name of a specific work station. Examples include: DSP10, DSP11, RMT55,...
A value must be specified on either this parameter or the Work station type (WRKSTNTYP) parameter, but not for both.

Top

Work station type (WRKSTNTYPE)

Specifies the type of work station associated with the entry being added, changed, or removed. This entry applies to all work stations of this type that do not have specific entries for an individual work station.

*ALL
All work station devices. This includes devices with 5250, ASCII, and 327x device types.

3179
3179 work station.

3180
3180 work station.

3196
3196 work station.

3197
3197 work station.

3277
3277 work station.

3278
3278 work station.

3279
3279 work station.

3476
3476 work station.

3477
3477 work station.

3486
3486 work station.

3487
3487 work station.

5251
5251 work station.

5291
5291 work station.

5292
5292 color work station.

5555
5555 double-byte character set (DBCS) capable work station.

*ASCII
All ASCII work station device types.

CONS
System console display. This entry overrides a device type entry that specifies the same device type as the device being used as the console.

*CONS
System console display. This entry overrides a device type entry that specifies the same device type as the device being used as the console.

*NONASCII
All work station devices that use the 5250 data stream, as well as, 327x device types.

A value must be specified on either this parameter or the Work station name (WRKSTN) parameter, but not for both.

Top

Job description (JOBD)

Specifies the name and library of the job description used for jobs started through this work station entry. If the job description does not exist when the entry is added, a library qualifier must be specified because the qualified job description name is kept in the subsystem description.

Note: Only a user with all object (*ALLOBJ) special authority is allowed to add or change an entry for which the job description does not exist.

Single values

*USRPRF
The job description named in the user profile that is used to sign on at this work station (or at this type of work station) is used for jobs started through this entry.

*SBSD
The job description having the same name as the subsystem description, specified on the Subsystem description (SBSD) parameter, is used for jobs started through this entry.

Qualifier 1: Job description

name
Specify the name of the job description.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the thread's library list are searched until a match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the thread is used to locate the object. If no library is specified as the current library for the thread, the QGPL library is used.

name
Specify the library where the job description is located.

Top

Maximum active jobs (MAXACT)

Specifies, for work stations that use this work station job entry, the maximum number of work station jobs that can be active at the same time.

*NOMAX
There is no maximum number of jobs (work stations) that can be active at the same time through this work entry.

0-32000
Specify the maximum number of jobs that can be active at the same time through this work entry.

Top

Allocation (AT)

Specifies how the work stations associated with this job entry are allocated. For more information on how work stations are allocated to subsystems, see the Start Subsystem (STRSBS) command.

*SIGNON
The work stations are allocated when the subsystem is started if the work station is not already in use (signed on) in another subsystem. A sign-on prompt is displayed at each work station associated with this work entry. If a work station becomes allocated to a different subsystem, interactive jobs associated with the work station are allowed to enter this subsystem through the Transfer Job (TFRJOB) command.

*ENTER
The work stations associated with this work entry are not allocated when the subsystem is started. However, the interactive jobs associated with the work stations are allowed to enter this subsystem through the TFRJOB command.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Adding a Work Station Job Entry

ADDWSE SBSD(LIB7/ORDER) WRKSTNTYPE(5251) JOBD(QCTL) AT(*SIGNON)

This command adds a work station job entry to a subsystem description named ORDER in library LIB7. All type 5251 work stations are allocated to this subsystem when the subsystem is started, unless they are already active in a previously started subsystem. After sign-on is complete, the IBM-supplied job description QCTL is used to start the routing step.

Example 2: Adding a Work Station Job Entry

ADDWSE SBSD(LIB7/ORDER) WRKSTN(A12) JOBD(LIB7/ORDER) AT(*ENTER)

This command adds a work station job entry for work station A12 to a subsystem description named ORDER in library LIB7. Interactive jobs associated with work station A12 are allowed to enter this subsystem through the Transfer Job (TFRJOB) command.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF1619
Subsystem description &1 in library &2 damaged.

CPF1691
Active subsystem description may or may not have changed.

CPF1697
Subsystem description &1 not changed.

Top