Adding messages to a file

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Defining message descriptions > Defining message descriptions

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Defining message descriptions

Adding messages to a file
The Add Message Description (ADDMSGD) command
describes your predefined messages and adds them to the message file that
you created.
On the ADDMSGD command, you specify
the message identifier, the name of the message file into which the message
is to be placed, and the message description. In the message description,
you can specify:
Message text (required) with optional substitution variables
Message help text with optional substitution variables
Severity code
Description of the format of the message data to be used for the substitution
variables
Validity checking values for a reply
Default value for a reply
Default message handling action for escape messages
Creation level
Alert options
Entry in the error log
Coded Character Set Identifier (CCSID)

The following commands are also available for use with message descriptions:
Change Message Description (CHGMSGD)
Changes a message description.
Display Message Description (DSPMSGD)
Displays a message description. (A range of message identifiers can be
specified in this command.)
Remove Message Description (RMVMSGD)
Removes a message description from a message file.
Retrieve Message (RTVMSG)
Retrieves a message from a message file.
Merge Message File (MRGMSGF)
Merges messages from one message file into another message file.
Work with Message Descriptions (WRKMSGD)
Displays a list of messages in a file and allows you to add, change, or
delete message descriptions.

Assigning a message identifier
The message identifier you specify on the Add Message
Description (ADDMSGD) command is used to refer to the message and
is the name of the message description.
Defining messages and message help
You can define two levels of messages on the Add Message
Description (ADDMSGD) command. The text of the message is required
and should identify the condition that caused the message to be issued. Message
help is optional and should explain the condition further or explain the corrective
action to be taken.
Defining substitution variables
On the FMT parameter on the Add Message Description
(ADDMSGD) command, you can specify substitution variables
for either first-level or second-level messages.
Assigning a severity code
The severity code you assign to a message on the Add
Message Description (ADDMSGD) command indicates how important the
message is.
Specifying validity checking for replies
On the Add Message Description (ADDMSGD) command,
you can specify the type of reply that is valid for an inquiry or notify message.
Example: Sending an immediate message and handling a reply
This example shows how a program or procedure sends
an inquiry message and handles the reply.
Defining default values for replies
The Add Message Description (ADDMSGD) command
specifies a default value for a reply to your message.
Specifying default message handling for escape messages
For each message you create that can be sent as an escape message,
you can set up a default message handling action to be used if the message,
when sent, is not handled any other way.
Example: Describing a message
This example shows how to create a message to be used
in an application.
Defining double-byte messages
To define a message with double-byte text, you can write a CL procedure
or program using the Add Message Description (ADDMSGD) command.
The defined message is put into a message file and then sent
normally.

Parent topic: Defining message descriptions