Start Remote Support (STRRMTSPT)

Start Remote Support (STRRMTSPT)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: Interactive environments (*INTERACT *IPGM *IREXX *EXEC)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Start Remote Support (STRRMTSPT) command creates and varies on all configuration objects needed for remote support. Remote support allows the IBM service organization to access your system. Remote support options that are available include:

- remote work station

- virtual device

- virtual device over a systems network architecture (SNA) connection

- virtual device over a point-to-point protocol (PPP) connection using internet protocol (IP)

- virtual device over a virtual private network (VPN) connection using internet protocol (IP)

Each remote support option has different command parameters that are required for connectivity. If any existing remote support configuration objects are found, they are deleted and then re-created. After the configuration objects have been created, they are varied on. You must provide a user identifier and password before the support person can sign-on your system.

Restrictions:

- When using DEVCLS(*RMT), the remote work station used by a support organization must be one of those listed in the DSPTYPE and DSPMODEL parameters. If your support organization has a configuration that does not match, you must work with the support person to create the correct configuration objects on your system.

- When using DEVCLS(*VRT) or DEVCLS(*IPS), the QUSER user profile must not be disabled.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
DEVCLS | Device class | *RMT, *VRT, *IPS, *PPP, *VPN | Required, Positional 1
DSPTYPE | Display type | 3179, 3180, 3196, 3197, 5251, 5291, 5292 | Optional, Positional 2
DSPMODEL | Display model | 1, 2, 11, A1, A2, B1, B2, C1, C2, D1, D2, W1, W2, 0001, 0002, 0011 | Optional, Positional 3
STNADR | Station address | 01-FE, FE | Optional, Positional 4
USRPRF | User profile | Character value, QPGMR | Optional, Positional 5
RSRCNAME | Resource name | Character value, *DFT | Optional, Positional 6
RMTLOCNAME | Remote location | Communications name, QREMOTE | Optional, Positional 7
LCLLOCNAME | Local location | Communications name, QLOCAL, *NETATR | Optional, Positional 8
RMTNETID | Remote network identifier | Communications name, *NETATR, *NONE | Optional
MAXLENRU | Maximum length of request unit | 241-32767, 32767, *SAME, *CALC | Optional
DTACPR | Data compression | *SAME, *NETATR, *NONE, *ALLOW, *REQUEST, *REQUIRE | Optional
INDTACPR | Inbound data compression | *SAME, *RLE, *LZ9, *LZ10, *LZ12, *NONE | Optional
OUTDTACPR | Outbound data compression | *SAME, *RLE, *LZ9, *LZ10, *LZ12, *NONE | Optional
MODEM | Modem | Character value, *RSRCNAME, *RMTPPP, *SELECT | Optional
MDMRMTSYS | Modem remote system | Character value | Optional

Top

Device class (DEVCLS)

Specifies the device class for this display station. Different configuration objects are created, depending on the value specified.

This is a required parameter.

*RMT
This device class is for a device connected to a remote work station. The configuration objects created for this option include a line description, a controller description, a display device description, and a printer device description.

*VRT
This device class is for a virtual device. The configuration objects created for this option include a line description, a controller description, a device description, a virtual control description, and a virtual display device description.

*IPS
This device class is for a virtual device and also supports internet protocol (IP) over SNA sessions on this connection. The configuration objects created for this option include a line description, a controller description, a device description, a virtual control description, and a virtual display device description.

*PPP
This device class supports IP over a point-to-point protocol (PPP) connection. The configuration objects created for this option include a line description, a controller description, a device description, and a PPP profile. DEVCLS(*PPP) requires that the QRETSVRSEC system value be set to '1' to retain server security data. This allows for additional authentication to be performed when the service organization attempts to connect.

*VPN
This device class supports IP over a virtual private network (VPN) connection. The Universal Connection wizard, or the Create Service Configuration (CRTSRVCFG) command must be run before running the STRRMTSPT command in order to set up a VPN configuration on the system. No configuration objects are created for this option.

Top

Display type (DSPTYPE)

Specifies the workstation display device type which will be used for remote support. A value must be specified for this parameter when DEVCLS has a value of *RMT, *VRT, or *IPS.

Valid display station type values are:

- 3179

- 3180

- 3196

- 3197

- 5251

- 5291

- 5292

Top

Display model (DSPMODEL)

Specifies the model number of the device for this description. A value must be specified for this parameter when DEVCLS has a value of *RMT, *VRT, or *IPS.

The possible values for the device model for each device type are:

TYPE
MODEL

3179
2

3180
2

3196
A1, A2, B1, or B2

3197
C1, C2, D1, D2, W1, or W2

5251
11

5291
1, or 2

5292
1, or 2

Top

Address (STNADR)

Depending on the value specified for the DEVCLS parameter, this parameter specifies the address that will be used for either the station address or the local IP address qualifier. If the DEVCLS is not *PPP or *VPN, then this parameter specifies the station address. The station address is the hexadecimal address by which the local system is known to the remote system. The hexadecimal address is the polling address assigned to this system.

If the DEVCLS is *IPS, *PPP, or *VPN, this parameter is used as the local IP address qualifier. This specifies the value of the last byte of the local internet address that will be used.

FE
The hexadecimal value FE is the local system address.

address
Specify a hexadecimal value from 01 to FE.

Top

User profile (USRPRF)

Specifies the name of the user profile that the IBM service personnel will use to sign on to your system. This profile is made the owner of the objects created by the system when remote support is started. The user profile must already exist on your system.

QPGMR
The default system-supplied user profile, QPGMR, is used to sign on to your system.

user-profile-name
Specify the name of the existing user profile that will be used to sign on to the remote system.

Top

Resource name (RSRCNAME)

Specifies the name of the resource used to access electronic customer support. This parameter is not used for DEVCLS(*VPN).

*DFT

- For DEVCLS(*PPP):

Look for resources being used by the 2771 or 2793 integrated modem. If only one 2771 or 2793 is defined, that resource is used for this PPP line. Note that more than one 2771 or 2793 could be defined, but a 2771 or 2793 resource can only be calculated if only one is defined.

If a 2771 or 2793 modem resource cannot be used, determine if any resources are defined for use by electronic customer support (ECS). If an ECS resource is available, that resource is used for this PPP line.

If neither a single 2771 or 2793 integrated modem or ECS resource is available, the resource cannot be calculated and it will have to be explicitly specified.

- For all other DEVCLS values (except *VPN): The resource name associated with the shipped default port for accessing electronic customer support is used. This is the first port on the I/O (input/output) adapter in card position B of the first multifunction IOP (input/output processor) on the bus. If this port does not exist on the system, resource name CMN01 is used.

resource-name
Specify the name of the resource used to access electronic customer support.

Top

Remote location (RMTLOCNAME)

Specifies the remote location name of the system with which this object communicates. This parameter is used when DEVCLS is *VRT or *IPS.

QREMOTE
The default system-supplied remote support location name.

remote-location-name
Specify the name of the remote support location.

Top

Local location (LCLLOCNAME)

Specifies the unique location name that identifies the local system to remote devices. The name cannot be the same as that specified for the Remote location prompt (RMTLOCNAME parameter). The combination of the names specified for the Local location prompt (LCLLOCNAME parameter) and the Remote location prompt (RMTLOCNAME parameter) must be unique for each device attached to the same controller. This parameter is used when the DEVCLS parameter has a value of *VRT or *IPS.

QLOCAL
The default system-supplied local location name is used.

*NETATR
The LCLLOCNAME value specified in the system network attributes is used.

local-location-name
Specify the location name to be used to identify the local system to remote devices.

Top

Remote network identifier (RMTNETID)

Specifies the name of the remote network in which the remote system resides. This parameter is used when the DEVCLS parameter has a value of *VRT or *IPS.

*NONE
No remote network name is used.

remote-network-name
Specify the remote network name.

Top

Maximum length of request unit (MAXLENRU)

Specifies the maximum request unit (RU) length allowed. This parameter is used when the DEVCLS parameter has a value of *VRT or *IPS.

32767
The maximum request unit length is 32767 bytes.

*CALC
The system calculates the maximum value to use.

maximum-request-unit-length
Specify a value, ranging from 241 through 32767 bytes, for the maximum length of incoming request units.
Some common values, based on line type, are:

- SDLC lines: 256, 512, 1024, 2048

- Token-Ring Network lines: 256, 512, 1024, 1985

- X.25 (QLLC) lines: 247, 503, 1015

- X.25 (ELLC) lines: 241, 497, 1009

More information on setting the maximum RU length is in the Communications Configuration book, SC41-5401 book.

Top

Data compression (DTACPR)

Specifies whether data compression is used.

*REQUEST
Data compression is requested on the session by the local system. However, the request can be refused or changed to lower compression levels by the remote system. Data compression is allowed on the session if requested by the remote system. The requested compression levels for inbound and outbound data are the levels specified on the Inbound data compression and Outbound data compression prompts (INDTACPR and OUTDTACPR parameters).
If data compression is requested by the remote system, the data compression levels used by the session are the lower of the requested levels and the levels specified on the Inbound data compression and Outbound data compression prompts (INDTACPR and OUTDTACPR parameters).

*NONE
Compression is not allowed on the session.

*ALLOW
Data compression is allowed on the session by the local system if requested by a remote system. The local system does not request compression.
If data compression is requested by the remote system, the data compression levels used by the session are the lower of the requested levels and the levels specified on the Inbound data compression and Outbound data compression prompts (INDTACPR and OUTDTACPR parameters).

*REQUIRE
Data compression is required on the session. If the remote system does not accept the local system's exact required levels of compression, the session is not established.
The data compression levels that the local system require are the levels specified on the Inbound data compression and Outbound data compression prompts (INDTACPR and OUTDTACPR parameters).

Top

Inbound data compression (INDTACPR)

Specifies the desired level of compression for inbound data. No data compression occurs if *NONE is specified on the Data compression prompt (DTACPR parameter). Adaptive dictionary-based compression is a dynamic compression algorithm, similar to Lempel-Ziv, that compresses previously seen strings to 9-, 10-, and 12-bit codes. This algorithm is referred to as LZ in the following parameters.

*LZ12
The LZ algorithm with the 12-bit code for repeated substrings in the data stream is used. These codes refer to entries in a common dictionary, created as the data flows between the sender and receiver. The LZ algorithms require storage and extra processing time. LZ12 requires the most storage and processing time of the LZ algorithms; however, it compresses the data stream the most.

*RLE
The Run Length Encoding (RLE) algorithm is used. RLE substitutes a 1- or 2-byte sequence in the data stream for each repeated occurrence of the same character. This algorithm requires no storage and less processing time than the other options.

*LZ9
The LZ algorithm with the 9-bit code for repeated substrings in the data stream is used. These codes refer to entries in a common dictionary, created as the data flows between the sender and receiver. The LZ algorithms require storage and extra processing time. The LZ9 requires the least storage and processing time of the LZ algorithms; however, it compresses the data stream the least.

*LZ10
The LZ algorithm with the 10-bit code for repeated substrings in the data stream is used. These codes refer to entries in a common dictionary, created as the data flows between the sender and receiver. The LZ algorithms require storage and extra processing time. The LZ10 table algorithm requires more storage and processing time than the LZ9, but less than the LZ12. The LZ10 compresses the data stream more than the LZ9, but less than the LZ12.

Top

Outbound data compression (OUTDTACPR)

Specifies the desired level of compression for outbound data. No data compression occurs if *NONE is specified on the Data compression prompt (DTACPR parameter).

*LZ12
The LZ algorithm with the 12-bit code for repeated substrings in the data stream is used. These codes refer to entries in a common dictionary, created as the data flows between the sender and receiver. The LZ algorithms require storage and extra processing time. LZ12 requires the most storage and processing time of the LZ algorithms; however, it compresses the data stream the most.

*RLE
The Run Length Encoding (RLE) algorithm is used. RLE substitutes a 1- or 2-byte sequence in the data stream for each repeated occurrence of the same character. This algorithm requires no storage and less processing time than the other options.

*LZ9
The LZ algorithm with the 9-bit code for repeated substrings in the data stream is used. These codes refer to entries in a common dictionary, created as the data flows between the sender and receiver. The LZ algorithms require storage and extra processing time. The LZ9 requires the least storage and processing time of the LZ algorithms; however, it compresses the data stream the least.

*LZ10
The LZ algorithm with the 10-bit code for repeated substrings in the data stream is used. These codes refer to entries in a common dictionary, created as the data flows between the sender and receiver. The LZ algorithms require storage and extra processing time. The LZ10 table algorithm requires more storage and processing time than the LZ9, but less than the LZ12. The LZ10 compresses the data stream more than the LZ9, but less than the LZ12.

Top

Modem (MODEM)

Specifies the modem description to use for the point-to-point protocol (PPP) profile.

*RSRCNAME
The modem description will be determined based on the value defined for the RSRCNAME parameter.

- If the resource is defined to use the 2771 integrated modem, the '2771 Internal Modem' description is used.

- If the resource is defined to use the 2772 integrated modem, the '2772 Internal Modem' description is used.

- If the resource is defined to use the 2793 integrated modem, the '2793 Internal Modem' description is used.

- If the resource is defined to use the 2805 integrated modem, the '2805 Internal Modem' description is used.

- If the ECS resource was chosen, the 'IBM 7852-400' modem description is used.

- Otherwise if the resource does not have a pre-defined modem description, MODEM(*RSRCNAME) cannot be used and the modem description will have to be explicitly defined.

*RMTPPP
Indicates that a modem on a different partition or system is to be used. The internet address or host name where the modem is located must be specified for the Modem remote system (MDMRMTSYS) parameter.

*SELECT
A list of modem descriptions is shown from which you can select the modem to use. This option is only valid when running the STRRMTSPT CL command in interactive mode, otherwise an error will occur. If you are running interactively, it is recommended that you use the *SELECT value to help ensure that you properly select the modem to use.

'modem-identification'
Specify the name of the modem to use. Note that modem names are case sensitive and must match exactly to the modems defined for the system.

'generic*-modem-identification'
Specify the generic name of the modem you wish to use. A generic modem name is a character string of one or more characters followed by an asterisk (*); for example, 'abc*'. If a generic name is specified, then the FIRST modem name that matches with the generic name will be used. It is recommended that you include as many characters in the modem name string as possible to avoid any ambiguity. If an asterisk is not included with the generic (prefix) name, the system assumes it to be the complete modem name. The actual modem name chosen will be posted in a message in the joblog.

Top

Modem remote system (MDMRMTSYS)

Specifies the internet protocol (IPv4) address or the host name for the system or partition where the modem to be used for remote support is located.

Note: This parameter is required if *RMTPPP is specified for the Modem (MODEM) parameter. If the MODEM parameter has any value other than *RMTPPP, this parameter cannot be specified.

character-value
Specify the IP address or host name of the remote system or partition where the modem is located.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Start Remote Support using PPP

STRRMTSPT DEVCLS(*PPP) STNADR(FA)

This command creates and starts a PPP answer profile and associated configuration objects. The local internet address assigned is 169.254.2.250.

Example 2: Start Remote Support for Virtual Device

STRRMTSPT DEVCLS(*VRT) DSPTYPE(5251)
DSPMODEL(11) STNADR(FE)

This command creates and varies on the 5251 Model 11 Display Station located at station address FE.

Example 3: Start Remote Support using VPN

STRRMTSPT DEVCLS(*VPN)

This command starts remote support over a virtual private network (VPN) connection. Before running this command, the Universal Connection wizard, or the Create Service Configuration (CRTSRVCFG) command needs to be run to create the VPN configuration.

Example 4: Start Remote Support using a Remote Modem and PPP

STRRMTSPT DEVCLS(*PPP) STNADR(FE) MODEM(*RMTPPP)
MDMRMTSYS('10.1.1.2')

This command creates and starts an L2TP remote answer profile and associated configuration objects. Before running this command, the Universal Connection wizard needs to be run on the system or partition with internet address 10.1.1.2 where the modem to be used is located. When running the Universal Connection wizard, you need to specify that the modem should provide connectivity to others and that the connection type is AT&T. An alternative would be to create an L2TP terminator profile using the Remote Access Service New Profile GUI on the system or partition where the modem is located, specifying that outgoing calls are supported.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF1394
CPF1394 User profile &1 cannot sign on.

CPF9801
Object &2 in library &3 not found.

CPF9899
Error occurred during processing of command.

TCP83A7
QRETSVRSEC=0. Unable to save remote service password for &2.

Top