Reference for display files (position 29)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > Define a display file for DDS > Positional entries for display files (positions 1 through 44)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > Define a display file for DDS > Positional entries for display files (positions 1 through 44)

Reference for display files (position 29)

You can specify R in this position to use the
reference function of the IBM® i operating
system. This function copies the attributes of a previously defined, named
field (called the referenced field) to the field you are defining.

The referenced field can be previously defined in either the display file
you are defining or a previously created database file (the database file
to be referred to is specified with the REF or REFFLD keyword). The field
attributes referred to are the length, data type, and decimal positions of
the field, as well as the following keywords:
ALIAS (alternative name)

CCSID (Coded Character Set Identifier)

FLTPCN (floating-point precision)

TEXT

DATFMT

DATSEP

TIMFMT

TIMSEP

Editing and validity checking keywords

If you do not specify R, you cannot use the reference function for this
field and you must specify field attributes for this field.

Position 29 must be blank at the file, record, and help levels.

If the name of the referenced field is the same as the field you are defining,
you need only specify R in position 29 (in addition to specifying the name
of the field you are defining in positions 19 through 28). If the name of
the field you are defining is different from the name of the referenced field
you must specify the name of the referenced field with the REFFLD (Referenced
Field) keyword.

You can specify the name of the file defining the referenced
field as a parameter value with the REF (Reference) or the REFFLD keyword.

You do not need to copy all attributes from the previously defined field
to the field you are defining. To override specific attributes of the referenced
field, specify those attributes for the field you are defining as follows:
To override the EDTCDE (Edit Code) or EDTWRD (Edit Word) keywords, specify
EDTCDE or EDTWRD for the field you are defining. You can delete these keywords
by specifying the DLTEDT (Delete Edit) keyword for the field you are defining.

To override the CHECK (Check), COMP (Comparison), RANGE (Range), and VALUES
(Values) validity checking keywords and the CHKMSGID (Check Message Identifier)
keyword, specify any validity checking keyword for the field you are defining.
You can delete these keywords by specifying the DLTCHK (Delete Check) keyword
for the field you are defining.

When you override some specifications, others are also affected:

If you specify keyboard shift attribute, field length, or decimal positions
for the field you are defining, neither editing nor validity checking keywords
are copied from the referenced field.

If you override the previously defined data type to character (by specifying
M, A, X, or W in position 35), decimal positions are not copied. However,
if you specify N, D, or I in position 35 and leave blanks in positions 36
and 37 (decimal positions), the field you define has the decimal positions
of the referenced field. For D, the decimal positions must be zero.

Packed decimal and binary fields are not supported for display files.
Therefore, when you refer to fields of these types, the data type assigned
is zoned decimal with a keyboard shift as follows:
If editing is in effect for the field you are defining, the keyboard shift
is numeric only (Y in position 35).

If no editing is in effect for the field you are defining, the keyboard
shift is signed numeric (S in position 35).

When the referenced field contains the REFSHIFT (Reference Shift) keyword,
the value specified for REFSHIFT is used as the display file keyboard shift.
However, if the data type specified for the new field is not compatible with
the keyboard shift specified on the REFSHIFT keyword, the keyword is not copied
to the new field.

Note: After the display file is created, you can delete or change the referenced
file without affecting the field descriptions in the display file. Delete
and create the display file again to incorporate changes made in the referenced
file.