Remove Cluster Node Entry (RMVCLUNODE)

Remove Cluster Node Entry (RMVCLUNODE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: Yes | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Remove Cluster Node Entry (RMVCLUNODE) command is used to remove a node from a cluster. The node specified will be removed from the cluster membership list and will no longer be considered a member of the cluster. The node will also be removed from the membership of the device domain to which it belongs. The cluster resource group objects on the node being removed are deleted only if the node has a status of Active or if this command is called on the node that is being removed.

A node can be removed regardless of its status. If this command is called on a node with a status of Active, any node in the cluster can be removed. If this command is called on a node with a status of Inactive or Failed, only the node running the command can be removed. To remove a node that is not active, this command should be called on the node being removed and on a node in the cluster that is active.

If the cluster is partitioned and any node in the partition is removed, then that node must be removed in all other partitions in order for an automerge to complete successfully.

If the node being removed is active, the cluster resource group exit program will be passed an action code of Remove Node. The exit program on all other nodes in the recovery domain of the cluster resource group will be passed an action code of Failover. If the node being removed is the primary node for a device cluster resource group, ownership of the hardware associated with the cluster resource group will be moved to a backup node. If there are no backup nodes or all the backup nodes are either inactive or in a different cluster partition, ownership of the hardware is left with the node being removed.

If the node being removed is inactive, the cluster resource group exit program will be passed an action code of Remove Node on all nodes in the recovery domain. Ownership of hardware associated with a device cluster resource group will not be changed but will remain with the node being removed. If the node being removed is inactive, the cluster resource group exit program will be called with an action code of Delete Command on the node being removed if the command is run on the node being removed.

If the node being removed is a member of a device domain and it later will be added back to a cluster, the node most likely will need to be IPLed before it can be added to any device domain. One example of this situation would be if a device description for an auxiliary storage pool has been varied on since the last IPL.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority on all nodes in the cluster to run this command.

- This command cannot be called from a cluster resource group exit program.

- If all of the nodes in the cluster have a status of New, this command can only be called on the node where the cluster was originally created.

- There must be more than one node in the membership list.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
NODE | Node identifier | Name | Required, Positional 1
CLUSTER | Cluster | Name, * | Optional

Top

Node identifier (NODE)

Specifies the node identifier to be removed.

This is a required parameter.

name
Specify the name of the node to be removed.

Top

Cluster (CLUSTER)

Specifies the name of the cluster.

*
The cluster that has been configured on this system is used.

name
Specify the name of the cluster.

Top

Examples for RMVCLUNODE

RMVCLUNODE NODE(RCHCST01)

This command removes the node RCHCST01 from the cluster membership for the cluster. Cluster Resource Services is ended on node RCHCST01.

Top

Error messages for RMVCLUNODE

*ESCAPE Messages

HAE000E
Cluster node &1 in cluster &2 not removed.

Top