Schemas

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Concepts > Concepts

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Concepts

Schemas
The objects in a relational database are organized into
sets called schemas. A schema provides a logical classification of
objects in a relational database.
A schema name is used as the qualifier of SQL object names
such as tables, views, indexes, and triggers. A schema is also called
a collection or library.
A schema has a name and may have a different system
name. The system name is the name used by the IBM® i operating system. Either name is acceptable
wherever a schema-name is specified in SQL statements.
A schema is distinct from, and should not be confused
with, an XML schema, which is a standard that describes the structure
and validates the content of XML documents.
Each database manager supports a set of schemas that are reserved
for use by the database manager. Such schemas are called system
schemas. The schema SESSION and all schemas that start
with 'SYS' and 'Q' are system schemas.
User objects must not be created in system schemas,
other than SESSION. SESSION is always used as the schema name for
declared temporary tables. Users should not create schemas that start
with 'SYS' or 'Q'.
A schema is also an object in the relational database. It is explicitly
created using the CREATE SCHEMA statement.1 For more information, see CREATE SCHEMA.
An object that is contained in a schema is assigned to the schema
when the object is created. The schema to which it is assigned is
determined by the name of the object if specifically qualified with
a schema name or by the default schema name if not qualified.
For example, a user creates a schema called C:
CREATE SCHEMA C
The user can then issue the following statement to create a table
called X in schema C:
CREATE TABLE C.X (COL1 INT)

Parent topic: Concepts

1 A schema can also be
created using the CRTLIB CL command, however, the catalog views and
journal and journal receiver created by using the CREATE SCHEMA statement
will not be created with CRTLIB.