STOP Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > Procedure Division Statements

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements

STOP Statement
The STOP statement halts execution of the object program either
permanently or temporarily.

STOP Statement - Format

>>-STOP--+-RUN-----+-------------------------------------------><
    '-literal-'   

literal
May be numeric, nonnumeric or Boolean,
and may be any figurative constant except ALL literal. If the literal
is numeric, it must be an unsigned integer. IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Cannot
be a floating-point literal. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

When STOP literal is specified, the literal is communicated to
the system operator for batch jobs and to the work station for interactive
jobs. Program execution is suspended. Execution is resumed only
after operator intervention.
The operator response determines the action to be taken.    Operator
Response Action
   G (default)
Continue at next instruction.
   C
Terminate the execution of all programs up to and including the
program at the nearest control boundary. If the nearest control boundary
is a hard control boundary then escape message CEE9901 is issued to
the caller of the COBOL run unit. For batch jobs, the job is canceled
if the ENDSEV parameter (see CRTJOBD CL command) for the job contains
a value that is less than or equal to the severity of the message.
   D
Dump COBOL identifiers
and then perform the same action as C.
   F
Dump COBOL identifiers
and file information and then perform the same action as C.

The output of the STOP literal contains the program-name. The literal
is contained in the second level text, and is displayed when the Help
key is used.
The STOP literal statement is useful for special situations (a
special tape or disk must be mounted, a specific daily code must be
entered, and so forth) when operator intervention is needed during
program execution. However, the ACCEPT and DISPLAY statements are
preferred when operator intervention is needed.
When STOP RUN is specified, execution
of all programs up to and including the program at the nearest control
boundary is ended, and control is returned to the program prior to
the control boundary. If the nearest control boundary is a hard control
boundary, then STOP RUN causes the activation group (run unit) to
end, which in turn causes all files scoped to the activation group
to be closed. If a STOP RUN statement appears in a sequence of imperative
statements, it must be the last or only statement in the sequence.
In each case above, the calling program could be the system. If
it is, execution of the run unit ceases, and control transfers to
the operating system.
Also, if the main program is called by a program written in a language
that does not follow COBOL linkage conventions, return will be to
this calling program.
For details on the behavior of the STOP RUN statement under various
conditions, see "Returning from an ILE COBOL Program" in IBM® Rational® Development Studio
for i: ILE COBOL Programmer's Guide.
Related Information: RETURN-CODE Special Register

RETURN-CODE Special Register

Parent topic: Procedure Division Statements