SFLPAG (Subfile Page) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

SFLPAG (Subfile Page) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword
on the subfile-control record format to specify the number of records in the
subfile to be displayed at the same time.

For an exception to this rule, see Field
selection.
The format of the keyword is: SFLPAG(number-of-records-to-be-displayed)
The
SFLPAG parameter value and the number of lines required by each subfile record
determine the number of actual lines required to display the page of records.
Not all records within a subfile must be displayed at the same time, and not
all lines of the display are required to display a page of subfile records.
This
keyword is required for the subfile-control record format.

Subfile page equals subfile sizeWhen you specify
the same parameter values for SFLPAG and SFLSIZ, the maximum number of records
that can be contained in the subfile equals the maximum number of subfile
records that can appear on the display at one time. For this condition, the IBM® i program does not automatically
page through the subfile when the Page Up or the Page Down key is pressed.
If the ROLLUP and ROLLDOWN keywords are specified and one of the Page keys
is pressed, the IBM i operating
system returns control to your program instead. If ROLLUP and ROLLDOWN are
not specified, a message is sent to the workstation user, indicating that
a key is not supported on the display.
If subfile size equals subfile
page, the following keywords are not allowed: SFLDROP
SFLFOLD
SFLROLVAL

When several display sizes are used (DSPSIZ keyword
specified), these keywords are ignored only for display sizes for which subfile
size equals subfile page.

Field selectionWhen subfile page equals
subfile size, you can specify option indicators for fields in the subfile
record format. This is called field selection. When field selection
is used in the subfile record, SFLPAG(value) specifies the number of display
lines available to display the records of this subfile. (Without field selection,
SFLPAG(value) specifies the number of subfile records that can be displayed
at one time.) This specification must be considered when a subfile record
occupies more than one display line. The value of SFLPAG must be greater than
or equal to the number of display lines occupied by the subfile.
If
the subfile record format contains field selection, the following keywords
are not valid on the subfile-control record format: SFLDROP
SFLFOLD
SFLINZ
SFLLIN
SFLRCDNBR
SFLRNA (because SFLINZ is not valid)
SFLROLVAL

Subfile page does not equal subfile sizeWhen you
specify different parameter values for SFLPAG and SFLSIZ, the IBM i operating
system recognizes the Page Up and Page Down keys and automatically pages through
the subfile according to the value specified in the field for which the SFLROLVAL
keyword is specified. If you do not specify the SFLROLVAL keyword, the IBM i program pages through the
subfile by the parameter value specified for the SFLPAG keyword except for
subfiles using SFLDROP. If you use the SFLDROP keyword, more records are displayed
than the SFLPAG value when records are displayed in the truncated format.
For truncated records, the IBM i operating
system pages through the display by the number of records displayed in the
truncated format.
Option indicators are not valid for this keyword.
Display size condition names are valid. Display size condition names are required
if you want the number of records that can be displayed at one time to change,
based on the size of the display.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the SFLPAG keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R SFLR SFL
A*
A* (at least one displayable field)
A*
00040A R SFLCTLR SFLCTL(SFLR)
00050A SFLPAG(17)
00060A SFLSIZ(17)
00070A SFLDSP SFLDSPCTL
ABecause the value specified for the SFLPAG keyword equals
the value specified for SFLSIZ(17), subfile page equals subfile size.