PARM (Identify Parameters)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes > Operation Codes

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes

PARM (Identify Parameters)

Free-Form Syntax

(not allowed - use Prototypes and Parameters and CALLP)

Code

Factor 1

Factor 2

Result Field

Indicators

PARM

Target field

Source field

Parameter

 

 

 

The declarative PARM operation defines the parameters that compose
a parameter list (PLIST). PARM operations can appear anywhere in
calculations as long as they immediately follow the PLIST, CALL, or
CALLB operation they refer to. PARM statements must be in the order
expected by the called program or procedure. One PARM statement, or
as many as 255 for a CALL or 399 for a CALLB or PLIST are allowed.

The PARM operation can be specified anywhere within calculations,
including total calculations. The control level entry (positions
7 and 8) can be blank or can contain an L1 through L9 indicator,
an LR indicator, or an L0 entry to group the statement in the appropriate
section of the program. Conditioning indicator entries (positions
9 through 11) are not allowed.

Factor 1 and factor 2 entries are optional. If specified, the entries
must be the same type as specified in the result field. If
the target field is variable-length, its length will be set to the
length of the value of the source field. A literal or named constant
cannot be specified in factor 1. Factor 1 and factor 2 must be blank
if the result field contains the name of a multiple-occurrence data
structure or *OMIT.

Tip:
If parameter type-checking is important for the application, you
should define a prototype and procedure interface definition for the
call interface, rather than use the PLIST and PARM operations.

The result field must contain the name of a:

For all PARM statements:

Field

Data structure

Array

For non-*ENTRY PLIST PARM statements it can also contain:

Array element

*OMIT (CALLB only)

The Result-Field entry of a PARM operation cannot contain:

*IN, *INxx, *IN(xx)

A literal

A named constant

A table name

In addition, the following are not allowed in the Result-Field
entry of a PARM operation in the *ENTRY PLIST:

*OMIT

A globally initialized data structure

A data structure with initialized subfields

A data structure with a compile time array as a subfield

Fields or data structures defined with the keywords BASED, IMPORT,
or EXPORT

An array element

A data-area name

A data-area data structure name

A data-structure subfield

A compile-time array

A program status (PSDS) or file information data structure (INFDS)

A field name can be specified only once in an *ENTRY PLIST.

If an array is specified in the result field, the area defined
for the array is passed to the called program or procedure. When a
data structure with multiple occurrences is passed to the called program
or procedure, all occurrences of the data structure are passed as
a single field. However, if a subfield of a multiple occurrence data
structure is specified in the result field, only the current occurrence
of the subfield is passed to the called program or procedure.

Each parameter field has only one storage location; it is in the
calling program or procedure. The address of the storage location
of the result field is passed to the called program or procedure on
a PARM operation. If the called program or procedure changes the value
of a parameter, it changes the data at that storage location. When
control returns to the calling program or procedure, the parameter
in the calling program or procedure (that is, the result field) has
changed. Even if the called program or procedure ends in error after
it changes the value of a parameter, the changed value exists in the
calling program or procedure. To preserve the information passed to
the called program or procedure for later use, specify in factor 2
the name of the field that contains the information you want to pass
to the called program or procedure. Factor 2 is copied into the result
field, and the storage address of the result field is passed to the
called program or procedure.

Because the parameter fields are accessed by address, not field
name, the calling and called parameters do not have to use the same
field names for fields that are passed. The attributes of the corresponding
parameter fields in the calling and called programs or procedures
should be the same. If they are not, undesirable results may occur.

When a CALL or CALLB operation runs, the following occurs:

In the calling procedure, the contents of the factor 2 field of
a PARM operation are copied into the result field (receiver field)
of the same PARM operation.

In the case of a CALLB when the result field is *OMIT, a null
address will be passed to the called procedure.

In the called procedure, after it receives control and after any
normal program initialization, the contents of the result field of
a PARM operation are copied into the factor 1 field (receiver field)
of the same PARM operation.

In the called procedure, when control is returned to the calling
procedure, the contents of the factor 2 field of a PARM operation
are copied into the result field (receiver field) of the same PARM
operation. This move does not occur if the called procedure ends abnormally.
The result of the move is unpredictable if an error occurs on the
move.

Upon return to the calling procedure, the contents of the result
field of a PARM operation in the calling procedure are copied into
the factor 1 field (receiver field) of the same PARM operation. This
move does not occur if the called procedure ends abnormally or if
an error occurs on the call operation.

Note: The data is moved in the same way as data is
moved using the EVAL operation code. Strict type compatibility is
enforced. For a discussion of how to call and pass parameters to a
program through CL, see the CL Programming manual.

For more information, see Call Operations or Declarative Operations.

Figure 1 illustrates the PARM operation.

Parent topic: Operation Codes