Views

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Concepts > Concepts

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Concepts

Views
A view provides an alternative way of looking at
the data in one or more tables.
A view is a named specification of a result table. The specification
is a SELECT statement that is effectively executed whenever the view
is referenced in an SQL statement. Thus, a view can be thought of
as having columns and rows just like a base table. For retrieval,
all views can be used just like base tables. Whether a view can be
used in an insert, update, or delete operation depends on its definition.
An index cannot be created for a view. However, an index created
for a table on which a view is based may improve the performance of
operations on the view.
When the column of a view is directly derived from a column of
a base table, that column inherits any constraints that apply to the
column of the base table. For example, if a view includes a foreign
key of its base table, INSERT and UPDATE operations using that view
are subject to the same referential constraints as the base table.
Likewise, if the base table of a view is a parent table, DELETE operations
using that view are subject to the same rules as DELETE operations
on the base table. A view also inherits any triggers that apply to
its base table. For example, if the base table of a view has an update
trigger, the trigger is fired when an update is performed on the view.
A view has a name and may have a different system name. The system
name is the name used by the IBM® i operating system.
Either name is acceptable wherever a view-name is specified
in SQL statements.
A column of a view has
a name and may have a different system column name. The system column
name is the name used by the IBM i operating system.
Either name is acceptable wherever column-name is specified
in SQL statements.
A view is created with the CREATE VIEW statement. For more
information about creating views, see CREATE VIEW.

Parent topic: Concepts