%SWITCH built-in function

%SWITCH built-in functionLast Updated: 2025-09-29

The switch built-in function (%SWITCH) compares one or
more of eight switches with the eight switch settings already established
for the job and returns a logical value of '0' or '1'.

The initial values of the switches for the job are determined
first by the Create Job Description (CRTJOBD) command;
the default value is 00000000. You can change this
if necessary using the SWS parameter on the Submit Job (SBMJOB), Change
Job (CHGJOB), or JOB command; the default for these is the
job description setting. Other high-level languages can also set
job switches.
If, in the comparison of your %SWITCH values against
the job values, every switch is the same, a logical value of '1' (true)
is returned. If any switch tested does not have the value indicated,
the result is a '0' (false).
The syntax of the %SWITCH built-in
function is:

%SWITCH(8-character-mask)
The 8-character mask is used to indicate which job
switches are to be tested, and what value each switch is to be tested
for. Each position in the mask corresponds with one of the eight job
switches in a job. Position 1 corresponds with job switch 1, position
2 with switch 2, and so on. Each position in the mask can be specified
as one of three values: 0, 1, or X.

0

The corresponding job switch is to be tested for a 0 (off).

1

The corresponding job switch is to be tested for a 1 (on).

X

The corresponding job switch is not to be tested. The value in
the switch does not affect the result of %SWITCH.

If %SWITCH(0X111XX0) is specified,
job switches 1 and 8 are tested for 0s; switches 3, 4, and 5 are tested
for 1s; and switches 2, 6, and 7 are not tested. If each job switch
contains the value (1 or 0 only) shown in the mask, the result of
%SWITCH is true '1'.
Switches can be tested
in a CL program or procedure to control the flow of the program or
procedure. This function is used in CL programs or procedures with
the If (IF) and Change Variable (CHGVAR) commands.
Switches can be changed in a CL program or procedure by the Change
Job (CHGJOB) command. For CL programs or procedures, these
changes take effect immediately.