Eject Emulation Output (EJTEMLOUT)

Eject Emulation Output (EJTEMLOUT)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Eject Emulation Output (EJTEMLOUT) command forces the last data received from the host system to the spooled file or printer by closing the printer file. After closing, another printer file is opened if *IMMED was specified on the Start Printer Emulation (STRPRTEML) command, so that more data can be spooled or printed. Printing then starts if *FILEEND was specified on the Spooled output schedule (SCHEDULE) parameter of the Create Printer File (CRTPRTF) command.

Note: When the emulation printer output is ejected, a page eject is also performed.

More information about device emulation is available in the 3270 Device Emulation Support book, SC41-5408.

Additional Considerations

You must use care when running this command. Before entering the command, you should look at the printed output (if SPOOL(*NO) was specified) or use the Display Spooled File (DSPSPLF) command to look at the spooled file (if SPOOL(*YES) was specified), to determine whether the printer data is at a logical breaking point. If this function is requested when printer emulation is in the middle of a group of print data from the host system, the group is split into separate printer files on the system.

The effect of this command on the printer emulation output varies, depending on the values specified for the SPOOL and SCHEDULE parameters on the printer file.

The possible values and their conditions are:

- SPOOL(*NO): All the data received from the host system is printed, and the printer moves to the top of the next page.

- SPOOL(*YES) and SCHEDULE(*IMMED): If a writer is active to the output queue and is printing this file, all the data received from the host system is printed, and the printer moves to the top of the next page. If a writer is not active (printing this file), the effect is the same as if SCHEDULE(*FILEEND) was specified. Another printer file is opened on the output queue.

- SPOOL(*YES) and SCHEDULE(*FILEEND): The status of the printer file on the output queue changes from open to ready to print. If a writer is active, the data can be printed. Another printer file is opened on the output queue.

- SPOOL(*YES) and SCHEDULE(*JOBEND): The status of the printer file on the output queue changes from open to closed. The file is not ready to print until the end of the job is reached. Another printer file is opened on the output queue.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
EMLDEV | Emulation device, or | Name | Optional, Positional 1
EMLLOC | Emulation location | Communications name | Optional, Positional 2
PRTDEV | Print device | Name | Optional, Positional 3

Top

Emulation device (EMLDEV)

Specifies the name of a printer emulation device that receives data from the host system. This device must be a 3287 Printer (EMLDEV(3287)) or a 3289 Printer (EMLDEV(3289)), and must currently be operating as an LU1 unit. The printer emulation job or session that is using this device will be informed of the request. If the LU1 session is between brackets, printer emulation starts a bracket and sends the PA key signal to the host system with a Change Direction (CD) request. If the LU session is in receive condition, a signal (request for CD) is sent to the host system, and printer emulation waits for the CD. When the CD is received, the PA key signal is sent to the host system with the CD. If the LU session is in send condition, the PA key signal is sent to the host system with the CD.

Either this parameter, or the Emulation location (EMLLOC) parameter and the Print device (PRTDEV) parameter is required.

Top

Emulation location (EMLLOC)

Specifies the remote location name associated with this session. The location name is defined during device description configuration and refers to the remote location where communication takes place. This value must be the same as the value specified for the Emulation location (EMLLOC) parameter on the Start Printer Emulation (STRPRTEML) command.

Either this parameter and the Print device (PRTDEV) parameter, or the Emulation device (EMLDEV) parameter, is required.

Top

Print device (PRTDEV)

Specifies the name of a printer device that is used to print the spooled output. This value must be the same as the value specified for the Printer device (PRTDEV) parameter on the Start Printer Emulation (STRPRTEML) command. This parameter must be specified when the EMLLOC parameter is specified.

Either this parameter and the Emulation location (EMLLOC) parameter, or the Emulation device (EMLDEV) parameter is required.

Top

Examples

EJTEMLOUT EMLDEV(HOSTPRT1)

This command closes the printer file in the printer emulation job using the emulation device HOSTPRT1, forcing the latest data from the host system out to the spooled file or printer.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF8595
Eject emulation output function not performed.

Top