Display Log (DSPLOG)

Display Log (DSPLOG)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Display Log (DSPLOG) command shows the system history log (QHST). The history log contains information about the operation of the system and system status.

The display contains the messages sent to the log, the date and time the message was sent, the name of the job and the program that sent it.

The QSYS2.HISTORY_LOG_INFO table function returns similar information.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
LOG | Log | QHST | Optional, Positional 1
PERIOD | Time period for log output | Element list | Optional, Positional 2
Element 1: Start time and date | Element list
Element 1: Beginning time | Time, *AVAIL
Element 2: Beginning date | Date, *CURRENT, *BEGIN
Element 2: End time and date | Element list
Element 1: Ending time | Time, *AVAIL
Element 2: Ending date | Date, *CURRENT, *END
OUTPUT | Output | *, *PRINT, *PRTWRAP, *PRTSECLVL | Optional
JOB | Jobs to display | Single values: *NONE
Other values (up to 5 repetitions): Qualified job name | Optional, Positional 3
Qualifier 1: Jobs to display | Generic name, name, *ALL
Qualifier 2: User | Generic name, name, *ALL
Qualifier 3: Number | 000000-999999, *ALL
MSGID | Message identifier | Single values: *ALL
Other values (up to 200 repetitions): Name | Optional
MSGIDSLT | Message identifier selection | *INCLUDE, *OMIT | Optional

Top

Log (LOG)

Specifies the log on the system that is shown.

QHST
The system history log QHST is shown.

Top

Time period for log output (PERIOD)

Specifies the period of time for which the logged message data is shown. This parameter contains two element lists of two elements each. A value or *N must be specified for an element if a subsequent element value will be specified in order to maintain its position in the parameter value sequence. If PERIOD is not specified, the following values are assumed:

PERIOD((*AVAIL *CURRENT) (*AVAIL *CURRENT))

Element 1: Start time and date

Element 1: Starting time

One of the following is used to specify the starting time at which or after which the data must have been logged. Any entries logged before the specified time and date are not shown.

*AVAIL
Any logged data that is available for the specified starting date is shown.

start-time
Specify the starting time for the specified starting date that indicates the logged data to be shown. The time is specified in 24-hour format and can be specified with or without a time separator:

- Without a time separator, specify a string of 4 or 6 digits (hhmm or hhmmss) where hh = hours, mm = minutes, and ss = seconds. Hours, minutes, and seconds must each be exactly 2 digits. Use leading zeros if necessary. Valid values for hh range from 00 through 23. Valid values for mm and ss range from 00 through 59.

- With a time separator, specify a string of 5 or 8 digits where the time separator specified for your job is used to separate the hours, minutes, and seconds. If you enter this command from the command line, the string must be enclosed in apostrophes. If a time separator other than the separator specified for your job is used, this command will fail.

Element 2: Starting date

One of the following is used to specify the starting date on which or after which the data must have been logged. Any entries logged before the specified date are not shown.

*CURRENT
The logged data for the current day and between the specified starting and ending times (if specified) is shown.

*BEGIN
The logged data from the beginning of the log is shown.

start-date
Specify the starting date with or without date separators. The date must be entered in the date format that this job uses, as specified in the date format job attribute. If date separators are used then they need to be the same as the date separator that this job uses, as specified in the date separator job attribute.

Element 2: End time and date

Note: The values specified for the ending date and time are ignored if the output is shown on the display. That is, all data in the log that was logged on or after the specified starting date and time can be shown, regardless of the ending date and time specified.

Element 1: Ending time

One of the following is used to specify the ending time before which the data must have been logged.

*AVAIL
Any logged data that is available for the specified ending date is shown. The time can be entered as either 4 or 6 digits (hhmm or hhmmss) where hh = hours, mm = minutes, and ss = seconds. If time separators are used to separate the time values, the character string must be enclosed in apostrophes ('hh:mm:ss'). If a time separator other than the one specified for the job is used, the command fails.

Note: The values specified for the ending date and time are ignored if the output is shown. That is, all data in the log that was logged on or after the specified starting date and time can be shown, regardless of the ending date and time specified.

end-time
Specify the ending time for the specified ending date that determines the logged data to be printed. See start-time for the formats in which time can be entered.

Element 2: Ending date

One of the following is used to specify the ending date before which or on which the data must have been logged.

*CURRENT
The current day is the last day for which logged data is shown.

*END
The last day on which data was logged is the last day for which the logged data is shown. If (PERIOD) *END is specified, an ending time value other than *AVAIL for end-time is ignored.

end-date
Specify the ending date with or without date separators. The date must be entered in the date format that this job uses, as specified in the date format job attribute. If date separators are used then they need to be the same as the date separator that this job uses, as specified in the date separator job attribute.

Note: If no output is received after you run the DSPLOG command with *PRINT specified, the dates of some message data may be out of sequence. To print the data in this case, specify:

PERIOD((*AVAIL *BEGIN)(*AVAIL *END)).

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether the output from the command is shown at the requesting display station or printed with the job's spooled output.

*
Output requested by an interactive job is shown on the display. Output requested by a batch job is printed with the job's spooled output.

*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output. Only one line of message text will be printed for each message. This will be the first 105 characters of the first level message text.

*PRTWRAP
The output is printed with the job's spooled output. If the message does not fit on one line, additional lines are printed to accommodate up to 2000 characters of the first level message text.

*PRTSECLVL
The output is printed with the job's spooled output. Both the first and second level text of the message are printed. Up to 2000 characters of first level text and 6000 characters of second level text will be printed.

When the output is printed, two or more lines are printed for each message. The last line contains the following information:

- Qualified job name of the job that sent the message. This consists of the following three fields:

Job name

User name

Job number

- The program name and instruction number that sent the message. The instruction number will be zero unless a diagnostic, notify or escape message was sent.

- The date and time the message was sent.

- The name of the user profile that the thread was running under when the message was sent.

Top

Jobs to display (JOB)

Specifies the jobs (if any) for which messages in the log are shown. The messages for the specified jobs are shown only if they were logged in the period of time specified in this command.

Single values

*NONE
No job name is used to indicate which messages are shown. Messages from all jobs are included.

Other values

Specify the names of up to five jobs that are to have their logged messages shown. A job name can be qualified with up to three elements.

Qualifier 1: Job name

*ALL
Messages from all job names with the specified job user name and job number are included.

generic-name
Specify the generic name of the jobs whose messages are to be included. A generic name is a character string of one or more characters followed by an asterisk (*). If a generic name is specified, all messages for jobs with job names that have the same prefix as the generic name are included.

name
Specify the name of the job whose messages are included.

Qualifier 2: User

*ALL
Messages from all job user names with the specified job name and job number are included.

generic-name
Specify the generic user name of the jobs whose messages are included. If a generic name is specified, all messages for jobs with user names that have the same prefix as the generic name are included.

name
Specify the user name of the job whose messages are included.

Qualifier 3: Number

*ALL
Messages from all job numbers with the specified job name and job user name are included.

000000-999999
Specify the job number of the job whose messages are included.

For example:

- *NONE

- job-name

- user-name/job-name

- job-number/user-name/job-name

If a job name is not qualified, all jobs by that name in the log will have their messages shown.

Top

Message identifier (MSGID)

Specifies up to 200 message identifiers to be included in the output or omitted from the output, depending on the value of the Message identifier selection (MSGIDSLT) parameter. Messages are considered for inclusion or omission only if they were logged in the period of time specified for the Time period for log output (PERIOD) parameter and in the jobs specified for the Jobs to display (JOB) parameter.

Single values

*ALL
All logged messages, regardless of their identifiers, are included in the output if they meet the previous job and time specifications.

Other values

message-identifier
Specify up to 200 identifiers of messages.
To specify generic types of messages, specify the 3-character code followed by all zeros. For example, CPF0000 represents all CPF messages that meet the specifications of the previous parameters. If an identifier is specified as pppnn00, it refers to messages beginning with the specified five characters (pppnn). See the description of the MSGID parameter in the Add Message Description (ADDMSGD) command for more information on message identifiers.

Top

Message identifier selection (MSGIDSLT)

Specifies whether the the list of message identifiers should be included in the output or omitted from the output.

*INCLUDE
The message ids that match the list, provided in the MSGID parameter, are included in the output.

*OMIT
The message ids that match the list, provided in the MSGID parameter, are not included in the output.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Displaying Logged Messages for Current Date

DSPLOG LOG(QHST)

This command shows all the logged messages (and their associated data) that are available in the history log for the current date.

Example 2: Displaying Logged Messages for September 2018

DSPLOG JOB(MYJOB) PERIOD((*AVAIL 090118) (*AVAIL 093018))
MSGID(CPF0000)

This command displays all CPF messages, in the history log for MYJOB, that were logged during September 2018.

Example 3: Omitting job start and job end messages

DSPLOG MSGID(CPF1124 CPF1164) MSGIDSLT(*OMIT)

This command omits message id CPF1124 (job started) and CPF1164 (job ended) when showing messages from the current date.

Example 4: Displaying all messages for a user

DSPLOG PERIOD((*AVAIL *BEGIN)) JOB(MYUSER/*ALL)

This command shows all available messages in the log sent from jobs that started with MYUSER user profile.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF2403
Message queue &1 in &2 not found.

CPF2447
No entries exist in current version of log.

CPF2478
Not authorized to requested version of log.

CPF2480
Requested version of log damaged.

CPF2519
Error occurred while processing message ID list.

CPF2537
Too many records written to file &2 in &3.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

CPF9846
Error while processing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9847
Error occurred while closing file &1 in library &2.

Top