Display Trace Data (DSPTRCDTA)

Display Trace Data (DSPTRCDTA)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Display Trace Data (DSPTRCDTA) command shows the output of any traces performed since the most recent Clear Trace Data (CLRTRCDTA) command. All of the trace statements and associated program variables within the trace range are shown. The display shows the sequence in which the traced statements or machine instructions were processed and the name or machine-interface object-definition-table-vector (MI ODV) number and value of any program variables defined for the trace at each point in the sequence. Note that the display of variable values is controlled by the When output (OUTVAR) parameter on the Add Trace (ADDTRC) command that defined the trace being shown.

If a job is in debug mode, and that job ends before an End Debug (ENDDBG) is done, this command is done automatically, printing the output with the job's spooled output.

Note: A program statement appears in the trace data prior to its processing a variable. Therefore, when a program statement (Statement A) changes a variable specified in the trace, the new value appears in the trace data after the statement that follows Statement A.

Restriction: This command is valid only in debug mode.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
OUTPUT | Output | *, *PRINT | Optional, Positional 1
CLEAR | Clear | *NO, *YES | Optional

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether the output from the command is displayed at the requesting work station or printed with the job's spooled output.

*
The output is displayed (if requested by an interactive job) or printed with the job's spooled output (if requested by a batch job).

*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output.

Top

Clear (CLEAR)

Specifies whether the trace data is cleared after it has been shown.

*NO
The trace data is not cleared.

*YES
The trace data is cleared after it has been shown.

Top

Examples

DSPTRCDTA

This command shows all of the recorded trace data at the requesting display station. All of the trace statements in the trace range and the values of the associated program variables are displayed. The trace data is not cleared after it has been displayed because CLEAR(*NO) is assumed.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF1999
Errors occurred on command.

Top