Remove Point-to-Point Profile (RMVTCPPTP)

Remove Point-to-Point Profile (RMVTCPPTP)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Remove Point-to-Point Profile (RMVTCPPTP) command is used to remove a point-to-point connection profile. There could be an output queue (*OUTQ) object associated with the profile (QUSRSYS/profile-name) and this *OUTQ would also be removed.

Optionally, all associated communications objects associated with this profile can also be deleted.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority to run this command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
CFGPRF | Configuration profile | Character value | Required, Positional 1
DLTCMNCFG | Delete communications config | *NO, *YES | Optional

Top

Configuration profile (CFGPRF)

Specifies the point-to-point configuration profile to be removed.

This is a required parameter.

character-value
Specify the name of a valid, inactive point-to-point configuration profile to be removed.

Top

Delete communications config (DLTCMNCFG)

Specifies whether you want to delete all communications configuration objects associated with this point-to-point profile. This would include the line, controller and device descriptions defined for use with this profile. Optionally, for some profile types this could also include any network interface descriptions and connection lists associated with the line description being deleted.

*NO
Do not delete any of the communications configuration currently associated with this point-to-point profile.

*YES
Delete the communications configuration associated with this point-to-point profile.

Note: If the communications configuration object to be deleted is found to have other point-to-point profiles or line descriptions using it or is not in a 'VARIED OFF' state, it will not be deleted. If a communications object is not deleted a message will be sent indicating the reason.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Delete a Point-to-Point Profile

RMVTCPPTP CFGPRF(SLIPPROF)

This command will remove the point-to-point profile named SLIPPROF. Any communications configuration objects associated with this profile will not be deleted.

Example 2: Delete Profile and Related Communications Configuration Objects

RMVTCPPTP CFGPRF(ANSPROF) DLTCMNCFG(*YES)

This command will remove the point-to-point profile named ANSPROF and all communications configuration objects associated with the profile. Additionally, if any of the configuration objects are found to be shared with other point-to-point profiles, such as a line description, then the object will not be deleted. If an object is not deleted, a diagnostic message will be sent indicating which object was not deleted and why.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

TCP83E0
Point-to-point profile &1 not removed.

Top