Debug commands

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging ILE programs > Debugging ILE programs

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging ILE programs

Debug commands
Many debug commands are available for use with the Integrated Language Environment® (ILE) source debugger.
The debug commands and their parameters are entered on the debug command
line displayed on the bottom of the Display Module Source and Evaluate Expression
displays. These commands can be entered in uppercase, lowercase, or mixed
case.
Note: The debug commands entered on the source debugger command line are not
CL commands.
The following table summarizes these debug commands. The online help for
the ILE source debugger describes the debug commands and explains their allowed
abbreviations.
Table 1. ILE source debugger commandsDebug command
Description

ATTR
Permits you to display the attributes of
a variable. The attributes are the size and type of the variable as recorded
in the debug symbol table.

BREAK
Permits you to enter either an unconditional
or conditional breakpoint at a position in the program being tested. Use BREAK position WHEN expression to enter a conditional breakpoint.

SBREAK
Permits you to enter a service entry point
at a position in the program being tested. A service entry point is a type
of breakpoint established in a program to facilitate the system debugger in
gaining control of a spawned job. The breakpoint is only signaled when the
job within which the service entry point was hit is not currently under debug.

CLEAR
Permits you to remove conditional and unconditional
breakpoints.

DISPLAY
Allows you to display the names and definitions
assigned by using the EQUATE command. It also allows you to display a different
source module than the one currently shown on the Display Module Source display.
The module object must exist in the current program object.

EQUATE
Allows you to assign an expression, variable,
or debug command to a name for shorthand use.

EVAL
Allows you to display or change the value
of a variable or to display the value of expressions.

QUAL
Allows you to define the scope of variables
that appear in subsequent EVAL commands.

STEP
Allows you to run one or more statements
of the program being debugged.

FIND
Searches the module currently displayed for
a specified line-number or string of text.

UP
Moves the displayed window of source towards
the beginning of the view by the amount entered.

DOWN
Moves the displayed window of source towards
the end of the view by the amount entered.

LEFT
Moves the displayed window of source to the
left by the number of characters entered.

RIGHT
Moves the displayed window of source to the
right by the number of characters entered.

TOP
Positions the view to show the first line.

BOTTOM
Positions the view to show the last line.

NEXT
Positions the view to the next breakpoint
in the source currently displayed.

PREVIOUS
Positions the view to the previous breakpoint
in the source currently displayed.

HELP
Shows the online help information for the
available source debugger commands.

SET
Allows you to change debug options such as
case sensitivity for FIND requests, whether production files may be updated
while in debug mode, and the enabling or disabling of original program model
(OPM) source debug support.

WATCH
Displays a list of the currently active watch
conditions.

Parent topic: Debugging ILE programs

Related tasks
Adding program objects to a debug session
Changing the value of variables
Equating a name with a variable, an expression, or a command

Related reference
Using the BREAK and CLEAR debug commands to set and remove conditional breakpoints
Setting and removing conditional breakpoints
Displaying variables
Displaying variable attributes