SFLSIZ (Subfile Size) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

SFLSIZ (Subfile Size) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword on
the subfile-control record format to specify the number of records in the
subfile.

The maximum number of records allowed is 9999. This keyword is
required for the subfile-control record format.
The format of the keyword
is: SFLSIZ(number-of-records-in-subfile | &number-of-records-in-subfile-field);
The
number-of-records-in-subfile parameter can be specified in 2 ways; as a number
or program-to-system field. The program-to-system field must be defined with
a length of 5 and data type S.
P-fields can be used for the size of
the subfile when using SFLEND with the *SCRBAR parameter. The application
can communicate to the IBM® i operating
system the number of records that the applications will be adding to the subfile.
Therefore, the scroll bar can show a better picture of the subfile.
Note: The
value for the p-field must be greater than the subfile page value. If the
value of the p-field is not greater than the subfile page value, the size
of the subfile will be page value plus one.

Subfile size equals subfile pageWhen you specify
the same parameter values for SFLSIZ and the SFLPAG keyword, you can specify
option indicators for fields in the subfile record format. (This is called
field selection.)
When the subfile is built, the records can vary in
length depending on which fields are selected, and each output operation places
records into successive positions within the subfile. When the subfile is
displayed, each record can require a different number of display lines. The
number of records that actually fit in the subfile depends on the fields selected
for each record written to the subfile.
If the last subfile record written
to the subfile fits exactly into the subfile, a status message (CPF5003) is
returned to your program. If the last subfile record written to the subfile
overflows the subfile, a notify message (CPF5043) is returned to your program.
The
specified SFLPAG value is increased to equal the maximum number of records
that fit on the display if the number of subfile records to be displayed do
not occupy a full display.
The SFLSIZ value is increased by the same
value. For example, if SFLPAG(13) and SFLSIZ(13) are specified, and the subfile
record format and SFLLIN value are specified such that three records can fit
on a single display line, SFLPAG and SFLSIZ are increased to 15.
Option
indicators are not valid for this keyword. Display size condition names are
valid and are required if the number of records within the subfile changes
depending on the display size. You cannot use display size condition names
for this keyword when a program-to-system field is used as a parameter for
it.

Subfile size does not equal subfile pageWhen you
specify different parameter values for SFLPAG keyword and SFLSIZ, the SFLSIZ
value specifies the number of records that can be placed into the subfile.
If your program places a record with a relative record number larger than
the SFLSIZ value into the subfile, the subfile is automatically extended to
contain it (up to a maximum of 9999 records). The parameter value you specify
should be large enough to accommodate the maximum number of records you normally
have in the subfile.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the SFLSIZ keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R SFLR SFL
00020A 21 FIELD1 78 2 2
00030A 22 FIELD2 40 3 2
00040A*
00050A R SFLCTLR SFLCTL(SFLR)
00060A SFLPAG(5)
00070A SFLSIZ(5)
00080A SFLDSP
00090A SFLDSPCTL
AYour program issues the following output operations:

Output operation to

Option indicators set

Result

SFLR

21 on 22 off

Only FIELD1 written to subfile

SFLR

21 on 22 on

FIELD1 and FIELD2 written to subfile

SFLR

21 off 22 on

Only FIELD2 written to subfile

(The IBM i operating
system sends status message CPF5003 to your program.)

 

 

SFLCTLR

No indicator necessary

Subfile displayed

The resulting display is as follows:
Figure 1. Subfile
display

In Figure 1, a fourth record
cannot be written to the subfile because there is no room on the display for
it (SFLPAG(5) has been specified in the DDS).