Work with Distribution Lists (WRKDSTL)

Work with Distribution Lists (WRKDSTL)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: Interactive environments (*INTERACT *IPGM *IREXX *EXEC)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Work with Distribution Lists (WRKDSTL) command provides a set of displays that you can use to view, create, add to, remove from, and delete distribution lists. A distribution list contains a list of directory entries used to simplify sending distributions to a group of users.

Restriction: You must have security administrator (*SECADM) authority to change, delete, or rename another user's distribution list.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
LSTID | List identifier | Single values: *ALL
Other values: Element list | Optional, Positional 1
Element 1: List ID | Character value
Element 2: List ID qualifier | Character value
CMDCHRID | Command character identifier | Single values: *SYSVAL, *DEVD
Other values: Element list | Optional
Element 1: Graphic character set | Integer
Element 2: Code page | Integer

Top

List identifier (LSTID)

Specifies by the two-part list ID which distribution lists are to be shown.

*ALL
All distribution lists in the system distribution directory are shown. The entries are displayed in alphabetical order by list ID.

The possible list identifier value is:

list-ID
Specify the list identifier (ID) of the distribution list.

The possible list qualifier value is:

list-ID-qualifier
Specify the list ID qualifier of the distribution list.

Note: The distribution list identifier has two parts, the ID and the qualifier, separated by at least one space. If lowercase characters are specified, the system changes them to uppercase.

The naming rules for the two-part list ID are identical to the rules for the user ID and address. A complete description of these rules is in the SNA Distribution Services book, SC41-5410.

Top

Command character identifier (CMDCHRID)

Specifies the character identifier (graphic character set and code page) for the data being entered as command parameter values.

Note:

- Only the user ID and address, system name and group, department, and the X.400 O/R parameters are translated to the graphic character set identifier (GCID) specified on this parameter. All other parameter values that you specify are stored exactly as they are entered; the GCID value is stored with them.

- If this command is run interactively, the default GCID value is taken from the display device description. If it is run in batch, the default GCID value is taken from the QCHRID system value. You can override these values by specifying a specific character set and code page on this parameter.

Single values

*SYSVAL
The system determines the graphic character set and code page values for the command parameters from the QCHRID system value.

*DEVD
The system determines the graphic character set and code page values from the display device description where this command was entered. This option is valid only when entered from an interactive job. If this option is specified in a batch job, an error occurs.

Element 1: Graphic character set

1-32767
Specify the graphic character set to use.

Element 2: Code page

1-32767
Specify the code page to use.

Note:

- Only the user ID and address, system name and group, department, and the X.400 O/R parameters are translated to the graphic character set identifier (GCID) specified on this parameter. All other parameter values that you specify are stored exactly as they are entered; the GCID value is stored with them.

- If this command is run interactively, the default GCID value is taken from the display device description. If it is run in batch, the default GCID value is taken from the QCHRID system value. You can override these values by specifying a specific character set and code page on this parameter.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Showing a Distribution List

WRKDSTL LSTID(WILL DISTLIST)

This command shows the Work with Distribution Lists panel with one entry, WILL DISTLIST. This example assumes that WILL DISTLIST exists.

Example 2: Showing All Distribution Lists

WRKDSTL

This command shows the Work with Distribution Lists panel with a list of all distribution lists in the distribution directory.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF9A83
Public nickname &1 not found.

CPF9A85
Nickname &1 not found.

CPF9024
System cannot get correct record to finish operation.

CPF905C
Error occurred trying to find a translation table.

CPF9052
List ID, &1 &2, cannot be found.

CPF9838
User profile storage limit exceeded.

Top