What's New in 6.1?

What's New in 6.1?Last Updated: 2025-10-07

This section describes the enhancements made to ILE RPG in 6.1.

THREAD(*CONCURRENT)

When THREAD(*CONCURRENT) is specified on the Control specification
of a module, it provides ability to run concurrently in multiple threads:
Multiple threads can run in the module at the same time.

By default, static variables will be defined so that each thread
will have its own copy of the static variable.

Individual variables can be defined to be shared by all threads
using STATIC(*ALLTHREAD).

Individual procedures can be serialized so that only one thread
can run them at one time, by specifying SERIALIZE on the Procedure-Begin
specification.

Ability to define a main procedure which does not use the RPG
cycle

Using the MAIN keyword on the Control specification, a subprocedure
can be identified as the program entry procedure. This allows an RPG
application to be developed where none of the modules uses the RPG
cycle.

Files defined in subprocedures

Files can be defined locally in subprocedures. I/O to local
files can only be done with data structures; I and O specifications
are not allowed in subprocedures, and the compiler does not generate
I and O specifications for externally described files. By default,
the storage associated with local files is automatic; the file is
closed when the subprocedure returns. The STATIC keyword can be used
to indicate that the storage associated with the file is static, so
that all invocations of the subprocedure will use the same file, and
if the file is open when the subprocedure returns, it will remain
open for the next call to the subprocedure.

Qualified record formats

When a file is defined with the QUALIFIED keyword, the record
formats must be qualified by the file name, MYFILE.MYFMT. Qualified
files do not have I and O specifications generated by the compiler;
I/O can only be done through data structures.

Files defined like other files

Using the LIKEFILE keyword, a file can be defined to use the
same settings as another File specification, which is important when
passing a file as a parameter. If the file is externally-described,
the QUALIFIED keyword is implied. I/O to the new file can only be
done through data structures.

Files passed as parameters

A prototyped parameter can be defined as a File parameter
using the LIKEFILE keyword. Any file related through the same LIKEFILE
definition may be passed as a parameter to the procedure. Within the
called procedure or program, all supported operations can be done
on the file; I/O can only be done through data structures.

EXTDESC keyword and EXTFILE(*EXTDESC)

The EXTDESC keyword identifies the file to be used by the
compiler at compile time to obtain the external decription of the
file; the filename is specified as a literal in one of the forms 'LIBNAME/FILENAME'
or 'FILENAME'. This removes the need to provide a compile-time override
for the file.
The EXTFILE keyword is enhanced to allow the
special value *EXTDESC, indicating that the file specified by EXTDESC
is also to be used at runtime.

EXTNAME to specify the library for the externally-described data
structure

The EXTNAME keyword is enhanced to allow a literal to specify
the library for the external file. EXTNAME('LIBNAME/FILENAME') or
EXTNAME('FILENAME') are supported. This removes the need to provide
a compile-time override for the file.

EXFMT allows a result data structure

The EXFMT operation is enhanced to allow a data structure
to be specified in the result field. The data structure must be defined
with usage type *ALL, either as an externally-described data structure
for the record format (EXTNAME(file:fmt:*ALL), or using LIKEREC of
the record format (LIKEREC(fmt:*ALL).

Larger limits for data structures, and character, UCS-2 and graphic
variables

Data structures can have a size up to 16,773,104.

Character definitions can have a length up to 16,773,104. (The
limit is 4 less for variable length character definitions.)

UCS-2 definitions can have a length up to 8,386,552 UCS-2 characters.
(The limit is 2 less for variable length UCS-2 definitions.)

Graphic definitions can have a length up to 8,386,552 DBCS characters.
(The limit is 2 less for variable length graphic definitions.)

The VARYING keyword allows a parameter of either 2 or 4 indicating
the number of bytes used to hold the length prefix.

%ADDR(varying : *DATA)

The %ADDR built-in function is enhanced to allow *DATA as
the second parameter to obtain the address of the data part of a variable
length field.

Larger limit for DIM and OCCURS

An array or multiple-occurrence data structure can have up
to 16,773,104 elements, provided that the total size is not greater
than 16,773,104.

Larger limits for character, UCS-2 and DBCS literals

Character literals can now have a length up to 16380 characters.

UCS-2 literals can now have a length up to 8190 UCS-2 characters.

Graphic literals can now have a length up to 16379 DBCS characters.

TEMPLATE keyword for files and definitions

The TEMPLATE keyword can be coded for file and variable definitions
to indicate that the name will only be used with the LIKEFILE, LIKE,
or LIKEDS keyword to define other files or variables. Template definitions
are useful when defining types for prototyped calls, since the compiler
only uses them at compile time to help define other files and variables,
and does not generate any code related to them.
Template data
structures can have the INZ keyword coded for the data structure and
its subfields, which will ease the use of INZ(*LIKEDS).

Relaxation of some UCS-2 rules

The compiler will perform some implicit conversion between
character, UCS-2 and graphic values, making it unnecessary to code
%CHAR, %UCS2 or %GRAPH in many cases. This enhancement is also available
through PTFs for V5R3 and V5R4. Implicit conversion is now supported
for
Assignment using EVAL and EVALR.

Comparison operations in expressions.

Comparison using fixed form operations IFxx, DOUxx, DOWxx, WHxx,
CASxx, CABxx, COMP.

Note that implicit conversion was already supported for the conversion
operations MOVE and MOVEL.

UCS-2 variables can now be initialized with character
or graphic literals without using the %UCS2 built-in function.

Eliminate unused variables from the compiled object

New values *UNREF and *NOUNREF are added to the OPTION keyword
for the CRTBNDRPG and CRTRPGMOD commands, and for the OPTION keyword
on the Control specification. The default is *UNREF. *NOUNREF indicates
that unreferenced variables should not be generated into the RPG module.
This can reduce program size, and if imported variables are not referenced,
it can reduce the time taken to bind a module to a program or service
program.

PCML can now be stored in the module

Program Call Markup Language (PCML) can now be stored in the
module as well as in a stream file. By using combinations of the PGMINFO
command parameter and/or the new PGMINFO keyword for the Control specification,
the RPG programmer can choose where the PCML information should go.
If the PCML information is placed in the module, it can later be retrieved
using the QBNRPII API. This enhancement is also available through
PTFs for V5R4, but only through the Control specification keyword.

Table 1. Changed Language Elements Since V5R4

Language Unit

Element

Description

Control specification keywords

OPTION(*UNREF | *NOUNREF)

Specifies that unused variables should not be
generated into the module.

THREAD(*CONCURRENT)

New parameter *CONCURRENT allows running concurrently
in multiple threads.

File specification keywords

EXTFILE(*EXTDESC)

Specifies that the value of the EXTDESC keyword
is also to be used for the EXTFILE keyword.

Built-in functions

%ADDR(varying-field : *DATA)

Can now be used to obtain the address of the
data portion of a varying-length variable.

Definition specification keywords

DIM(16773104)

An array can have up to 16773104 elements.

EXTNAME('LIB/FILE')

Allows a literal for the file name. The literal
can include the library for the file.

OCCURS(16773104)

A multiple-occurrence data structure can have
up to 16773104 elements.

VARYING{(2|4)}

Can now take a parameter indicating the number
of bytes for the length prefix.

Definition specifications

Length entry

Can be up to 9999999 for Data Structures, and
definitions of type A, C or G. (To define a longer item, the LEN
keyword must be used.)

Input specifications

Length entry

Can be up to 99999 for alphanumeric fields,
and up to 99998 for UCS-2 and Graphic fields.

Calculation specifications

Length entry

Can be up to 99999 for alphanumeric fields.

Operation codes

EXFMT format { result-ds }

Can have a data structure in the result entry.

Table 2. New Language Elements Since V5R4

Language Unit

Element

Description

Control specification keywords

MAIN(subprocedure-name)

Specifies the program-entry procedure for the
program.

PGMINFO(*NO | *PCML { : *MODULE } )

Indicates whether Program Information is to
be placed directly in the module.

File specification keywords

STATIC

Indicates that a local file retains its program
state across calls to a subprocedure.

QUALIFIED

Indicates that the record format names of the
file are qualified by the file name, FILE.FMT.

LIKEFILE(filename)

Indicates that the file is defined the same
as another file.

TEMPLATE

Indicates that the file is only to be used for
later LIKEFILE definitions.

EXTDESC(constant-filename)

Specifies the external file used at compile
time for the external definitions.

Definition specification keywords

STATIC(*ALLTHREAD)

Indicates that the same instance of the static
variable is used by all threads running in the module.

LIKEFILE(filename)

Indicates that the parameter is a file.

TEMPLATE

Indicates that the definition is only to be
used for LIKE or LIKEDS definitions.

LEN(length)

Specifies the length of a data structure, or
a definition of type A, C or G.

Procedure specification keywords

SERIALIZE

Indicates that the procedure can be run by only
one thread at a time.