SCORE

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

SCORE
The SCORE function searches a text search index using criteria
that are specified in a search argument and returns a relevance score
that measures how well a document matches the query.
SCORE(column-name,search-argument,search-argument-options)
search-argument-optionsQUERYLANGUAGE = valueRESULTLIMIT = valueSYNONYM = OFFON1
column-name
Specifies a qualified or unqualified name of a column that has
a text search index that is to be searched. The column must exist
in the table or view that is identified in the FROM clause in the
statement and the column of the table, or the column of the underlying
base table of the view must have an associated text search index.
The underlying expression of the column of a view must be a simple
column reference to the column of an underlying table, either directly
or through another nested view.
search-argument
An expression that returns a character-string data type or graphic-string
data type that contains the terms to be searched for. It must not
be the empty string or contain all blanks. The actual length of the
string must not exceed 32 740 bytes after conversion
to Unicode and must not exceed the text search limitations or number of terms as specified in the search argument
syntax. For information on search-argument syntax,
see Text search argument syntax.
search-argument-options
A character string or graphic string value that specifies the
search argument options to use for the search. It must be a constant
or a variable.
The options that can be specified as part of the search-argument-options are:QUERYLANGUAGE = value
Specifies the language value. The value can be any of the supported
language codes. If QUERYLANGUAGE is not specified, the default is
the language value of the text search index that is used when the
function is invoked. If the language value of the text search index
is AUTO, the default value for QUERYLANGUAGE is en_US. For more information
on the query language option, see Text search language options.
RESULTLIMIT = value
Specifies the maximum number of results that are to be returned
from the underlying search engine. The value must be an integer
from 1 to 2 147 483 647. If RESULTLIMIT is not specified, no result
limit is in effect for the query.SCORE may or may not be called
for each row of the result table, depending on the plan that the optimizer
chooses. If SCORE is called once for the query to the underlying search
engine, a result set of all of the ROWIDs or primary keys that match
are returned from the search engine. This result set is then joined
to the table containing the column to identify the result rows. In
this case, the RESULTLIMIT value acts like a FETCH FIRST n ROWS
ONLY from the underlying text search engine and can be used as an
optimization. If SCORE is called for each row of the result because
the optimizer determines that is the best plan, then the RESULTLIMIT
option has no effect.

SYNONYM = OFF or SYNONYM = ON
Specifies whether to use a synonym dictionary associated with
the text search index. The default is OFF.OFF
Do not use a synonym dictionary.
ON
Use the synonym dictionary associated with the text search index.

If search-argument-options is
the empty string or the null value, the function is evaluated as if search-argument-options were
not specified.

The result of the function is a double-precision
floating-point number. If search-argument can be null, the
result can be null; if search-argument is null, the result
is the null value.
The result of SCORE is a value between 0
and 1. The more frequent the column contains a match for the search
criteria specified by search-argument, the larger the result
value. If a match is not found, the result is 0. If the column value
is null or search-argument contains only blanks or is the empty
string, the result is 0.
SCORE is a non-deterministic function.
NotesPrerequisites: In order to use the CONTAINS and
SCORE functions, OmniFind® Text
Search Server for DB2® for i
must be installed and started.
Rules: If a view, nested
table expression, or common table expression provides a text search
column for a CONTAINS or SCORE scalar function and the applicable
view, nested table expression, or common table expression has a DISTINCT
clause on the outermost SELECT, the SELECT list must contain all the
corresponding key fields of the text search index.
If a view,
nested table expression, or common table expression provides a text
search column for a CONTAINS or SCORE scalar function, the applicable
view, nested table expression, or common table expression cannot have
a UNION, EXCEPT, or INTERSECT at the outermost SELECT.
If a
common table expression provides a text search column for a CONTAINS
or SCORE scalar function, the common table expression cannot be subsequently
referenced again in the entire query unless that reference does not
provide a text search column for a CONTAINS or SCORE scalar function.
CONTAINS and SCORE scalar functions are not allowed if
the query specifies:
a distributed table,
a table with a read trigger, or
a logical file built over multiple physical file members.

ExampleThe following statement generates a list of employees in the order
of how well their resumes match the query "programmer AND (java OR
cobol)", along with a relevance value that is normalized between 0
(zero) and 100.  SELECT EMPNO, INTEGER(SCORE(RESUME, 'programmer AND
(java OR cobol)') * 100) AS RELEVANCE
    FROM EMP_RESUME
WHERE RESUME_FORMAT = 'ascii'
AND CONTAINS(RESUME, 'programmer AND (java OR cobol)') = 1
ORDER BY RELEVANCE DESC
The database manager first evaluates the CONTAINS predicate
in the WHERE clause, and therefore, does not evaluate the SCORE function
in the SELECT list for every row of the table. In this case, the arguments
for SCORE and CONTAINS must be identical.

Parent topic: Scalar functions