End Cluster Admin Domain (ENDCAD)

End Cluster Admin Domain (ENDCAD)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: Yes | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The End Cluster Admin Domain (ENDCAD) command disables synchronization of the specified cluster administrative domain. The cluster administrative domain status is set to Inactive. Changes to monitored resources associated with the cluster administrative domain are no longer synchronized. Once the cluster administrative domain is ended, any changes made to monitored resources are set to a pending status and will be synchronized on all active nodes in the domain when the domain is started again.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority on all nodes in the recovery domain to run this command.

- The cluster resource group CRG is owned by the QCLUSTER user profile. To use the cluster resource group commands with the cluster administrative domain you will need to be authorized to the cluster resource group and to the QCLUSTER user profile.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
ADMDMN | Cluster administrative domain | Name, * | Optional, Positional 1
CLUSTER | Cluster | Name, * | Optional

Top

Cluster administrative domain (ADMDMN)

Specifies the cluster administrative domain to be ended.

*
The name of the cluster administrative domain that local cluster node is part of is used.

name
Specify the name of the cluster administrative domain to end.

Top

Cluster (CLUSTER)

Specifies the name of the cluster.

*
The cluster that has been configured on this system is used.

name
Specify the name of the cluster.

Top

Examples for ENDCAD

Example 1: End the local Administrative Domain.

ENDCAD

This command ends synchronization for the cluster administrative domain that the local cluster node is a member of.

Example 2: End a named Administrative Domain.

ENDCAD ADMDMN(MYDOMAIN)

This command ends synchronization for the cluster administrative domain named MYDOMAIN.

Top

Error messages for ENDCAD

*ESCAPE Messages

HAE0006
Cluster administrative domain &1 not ended.

Top