QCMDEXC program

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Command-related APIs > Command-related APIs

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Command-related APIs

QCMDEXC program
The Execute Command (QCMDEXC) API is an IBM-supplied program that
runs a single command.
This API is used to activate another command: From within a high-level language (HLL) program.
From within a CL procedure.
From a program where it is not known at compile time what command is to
be run or what parameters are to be used.

The QCMDEXC program is called from within the HLL or CL procedure
or program. The command that is to be run is passed as a parameter on the
CALL command.
After the command runs, control returns to your HLL or CL procedure
or program.
The command runs as if it was not in a program. Therefore,
variables cannot be used on the command because values cannot be returned
by the command to CL variables. Additionally, commands that can only be used
in CL procedures or programs cannot be run by the QCMDEXC program. The format
of the call to the QCMDEXC program is the following:
CALL PGM(QCMDEXC) PARM(command command-length)
Enter the command you want to run as a character string on
the first parameter. You must specify the command library.
CALL PGM(QCMDEXC ) PARM('QSYS/CRTLIB LIB(TEST)' 22)
Remember that you must enclose the command in single quotation
marks if it contains blanks. The maximum length of the character string is
6000 characters; never count the delimiters (the single quotation marks )
as part of the string. The length that is specified as the second value on
the PARM parameter is the length of the character string that is passed as
the command. Length must be a packed decimal value of length 15 with 5 decimal
positions.
Thus, to replace a library list, the call to the QCMDEXC
program would look like this:
CALL PGM(QCMDEXC) PARM('CHGLIBL LIBL(QGPL NEWLIB QTEMP)' 31)
It is possible to code this statement into the HLL or CL program
to replace the library list when the program runs. The QCMDEXC program does
not provide runtime flexibility when used this way.
Providing runtime
flexibility is accomplished by:
Substituting variables for the constants in the parameter list, and
Specifying the values for the variables in the call to the HLL or CL program.

For instance, examine the following figure. Figure 1. Example of
call PGM

The command length, passed to the QCMDEXC program on the second
parameter, is the maximum length of the passed command string. Should the
command string be passed as a quoted string, the command length is exactly
the length of the quoted string. Should the command string be passed in a
variable, the command length is the length of the CL variable. It is not necessary
to reduce the command length to the actual length of the command string in
the variable, although it is permissible to do so.
Not all commands
can be run using the QCMDEXC program. The command passed on a call to the
QCMDEXC program must be valid within the current environment (interactive
or batch) in which the call is being made. The command cannot be one of the
following:
An input stream control command (BCHJOB, ENDBCHJOB, and DATA)
A command that can be used only in a CL program

You can precede the CL command with a question mark (?) to request
prompting or use selective prompting when you call QCMDEXC in an interactive
job.
If an error is detected while a command is being processed through
the QCMDEXC program, an escape message is sent. You can monitor for this escape
message in your CL procedure or program using the Monitor Message
(MONMSG) command.
If a syntax error is detected, message CPF0006
is sent. If an error is detected during the processing of a command, any escape
message sent by the command is returned by the QCMDEXC program. You monitor
for messages from commands run through the QCMDEXC program in the same way
you monitor for messages from commands contained in CL procedures and programs.
See the appropriate high-level language reference
book for information about how high-level language programs handle errors
on calls.

QCMDEXC program with DBCS data
You can use the Execute Command (QCMDEXC) API
to request double-byte character set (DBCS) input data to be entered with
a command.

Parent topic: Command-related APIs

Related concepts
Variables in CL commands

Related tasks
Defining message descriptions
Using selective prompting for CL commands

Related information
Execute Commands (QCMDEXC) API