PROTECT (Protect) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

PROTECT (Protect) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword
with the OVERLAY keyword to specify that when the record you are defining
is displayed, all input-capable fields already on the display are to be changed
to output-only fields.

This protects them from input typing. This keyword does not affect
the record format in which it is specified. The data contents of the affected
fields are not changed, but your program cannot read them unless it first
displays the record formats again in which the input-capable fields are specified.
To
protect a single field from input typing, see the DSPATR(PR) keyword.
This
keyword has no parameters.
The OVERLAY keyword must be specified in
the record format in which PROTECT is specified. Also, either the OVERLAY
keyword or the CLRL keyword must be in effect for PROTECT to be in effect.
You
can use PROTECT to protect input-capable fields in other records only on the
first output operation for which you have selected PUTOVR. On subsequent output
operations, PROTECT is in effect only if the PUTOVR keyword is not in effect.
If
the ERASEINP and PROTECT keywords are both in effect for an output operation,
the IBM® i operating system
first erases the input-capable fields specified on the ERASEINP parameter
value, then protects all input-capable fields on the display from input typing.
A
warning message appears at file creation time if the PROTECT keyword is specified
on a record with the DSPMOD keyword. At run time, the PROTECT keyword is ignored
when the display mode changes.
Option indicators are valid for this
keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the PROTECT keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R RECORD1
00020A FLD1 5 I 5 3
00030A
00040A R RECORD2 OVERLAY
00050A 32 PROTECT
00060A FLDA 10 I 6 3
AIn this example, RECORD1 has an input-capable field that
has been displayed and read and that should be left on the display while RECORD2
is displayed and read. To prevent further entries in FLD1 in RECORD1, send
an output operation to RECORD2 with PROTECT in effect. When this is done,
FLDA is not protected, but FLD1 is protected.