Types of Names

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > COBOL Language Structure > Data Reference and Name Scoping > Scope of Names > Scope of Names

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > COBOL Language Structure > Data Reference and Name Scoping > Scope of Names

Types of Names
alphabet-name
An alphabet-name assigns a name to a specific character set and/or collating sequence in the SPECIAL-NAMES paragraph of the Environment Division.
class-name
A class-name assigns a name to the preposition in the SPECIAL-NAMES paragraph of the Environment Division for which a truth value can be defined.
condition-name
A condition-name associates a value with a conditional variable.
constant-name
A constant-name identifies a constant, which is defined in the data division.
data-name
A data-name names a data item.
file-name
A file-name names a file connector.
index-name
An index-name names an index associated with a specific table.
library-name
A library-name names a COBOL library that is to be used by the compiler for a given source program compilation.
mnemonic-name
A mnemonic-name assigns a user-defined word to an implementer-name.
paragraph-name
A paragraph-name names a paragraph in the Procedure Division.
program-name
A program-name names a program, either external or internal (nested).
See Conventions for Program-Names.

record-name
A record-name names a record.
section-name
A section-name names a section in the Procedure Division.
symbolic-character
A symbolic-character specifies a user-defined figurative constant.
text-name
A text-name names a library containing source members to be used by the COPY directive statements.

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension type-name
A type-name names a user-defined data type that can be used in a TYPE clause to define a data item.

End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension Related Information:
Nested Programs
Global and Local Names
External and Internal Objects
Resolution of Names.

Parent topic: Scope of Names