Setting and removing breakpoints

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging ILE programs > Debugging ILE programs

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging ILE programs

Setting and removing breakpoints
Breakpoints stop a program object at a specific
point when the program is running.
An unconditional breakpoint stops the program object
at a specific statement. A conditional breakpoint stops the program
object when a specific condition at a specific statement is met.
When
the program object stops, the Display Module Source display is shown. The
appropriate module object is shown with the source positioned at the line
where the breakpoint occurred. This line is highlighted. At this point, you
can evaluate variables, set more breakpoints, and run any of the debug commands.
You
should know the following characteristics about breakpoints before using them:

When a breakpoint is bypassed, for example with the Goto (GOTO) statement,
that breakpoint isn't processed.
When a breakpoint is set on a statement, the breakpoint occurs before
that statement is processed.
When a statement with a conditional breakpoint is reached, the conditional
expression associated with the breakpoint is evaluated before the statement
is processed.
Breakpoint functions are specified through debug commands. These functions
include: Adding breakpoints to program objects
Removing breakpoints from program objects
Displaying breakpoint information
Resuming the running of a program object after a breakpoint has been reached.

Setting and removing unconditional breakpoints
The system enables you to set and remove unconditional
breakpoints in several ways.
Setting and removing conditional breakpoints
You can use the Work with Breakpoints display
to set or remove a conditional breakpoint, the BREAK debug command to set
a breakpoint, or the CLEAR debug command to remove a breakpoint.
Using the Work with Breakpoints display
To set or remove breakpoints, use the Work with
Breakpoints display.
Using the BREAK and CLEAR debug commands to set and remove conditional breakpoints
An alternate method of setting and removing conditional breakpoints
is to use the BREAK and CLEAR debug commands.
National Language Sort Sequence
National Language Sort Sequence (NLSS) applies only
to non-numeric conditional breakpoint expressions of type Char-8.
Examples: Conditional breakpoint
These examples show how to set conditional
breakpoints.
Removing all breakpoints
To remove all breakpoints, conditional and unconditional,
from a program object that has a module object shown on the Display Module
Source display, use the CLEAR PGM debug command.

Parent topic: Debugging ILE programs