Initialize NWS Configuration (INZNWSCFG)

Initialize NWS Configuration (INZNWSCFG)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Initialize NWS Configuration (INZNWSCFG) command initializes or resets a service processor (*SRVPRC) network server configuration when various service processor parameters are changed or need to be enabled.

Restrictions:

- This command is shipped with public exclude (*EXCLUDE) authority. When this command is shipped, authority is issued only to the security officer. The security officer can grant the use of this command to other users.

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) and security administrator (*SECADM) special authorities to use this command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
NWSCFG | Network server configuration | Communications name | Required, Positional 1
OPTION | Processing option | *INIT, *CHGSPAUT, *REGEN, *SYNC | Required, Positional 2
SPAUT | SP authentication | Single values: *DFT
Other values: Element list | Required, Positional 3
Element 1: User name | Character value
Element 2: User password | Character value

Top

Network server configuration (NWSCFG)

Specifies the name of the network server configuration.

This *NWSCFG object must have been created with *SRVPRC specified for the Configuration type (TYPE) parameter on the Create NWS Configuration (CRTNWSCFG) command.

This is a required parameter.

name
Specify the service processor network server configuration to be processed.

Top

Processing option (OPTION)

Specifies option to perform with the service processor network server configuration.

This is a required parameter.

*INIT
Initialize a new service processor.

Note: This option is used to configure a service processor that has never been configured before such as when a new system is put into service or has had a service processor field replacement performed.

Note: A new user name and password must be specified on the SP authentication (SPAUT) parameter unless INZSP(*NONE) was specified in the corresponding CRTNWSCFG command

*CHGSPAUT
Change the service processor user name and password to the new values specified on the SP authentication (SPAUT) parameter.

*REGEN
Request that the service processor regenerate a self signed certificate. This option is used if the service processor's certificate has expired, or if a new certificate and password are desired at any time before the certificate expires.

Note: This option is only valid when INZSP(*AUTO) is specified in the corresponding CRTNWSCFG command.

Note: A new password must be specified on the SP authentication (SPAUT) parameter unless INZSP(*NONE) was specified in the corresponding CRTNWSCFG command

*SYNC

Synchronize the user name and password and self-signed certificate from the service processor. This option is used to initially synchronize IBM i with the service processor. It is also used if multiple service processor network server configurations are used for the same system or the service processor network server configuration has been restored from backup and the service processor certificate must be synchronized. The current user name and password for the service processor must be specified on the SP authentication (SPAUT) parameter to perform this option.

Top

SP authentication (SPAUT)

Specifies the service processor user name and password. This is used to authenticate and secure the service processor.

Note: The *DFT value is only valid when INZSP(*NONE) was specified in the corresponding CRTNWSCFG command.

This is a required parameter.

Single values

*DFT
The default service processor userid and password are used.

Element 1: User name

character-value
Specify a name that represents the host configuration that owns the service processor. It is suggested that the remote system network server configuration name be used. If multiple remote system network server configurations use the same service processor at different times, each configuration must contain the same user name and password.

Element 2: User password

character-value
Specify the service processor password. Password must be at least 5 characters in length and contain at least one alphabetic character and one numeric or symbolic character.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Regenerate Service Processor Certificate

INZNWSCFG NWSCFG(MYCONFIG)
OPTION(*REGEN)
SPAUT(username password)

This command regenerates the remote system's service processor certificate then changes the user name and password.

Example 2: Change Service Processor User Name and Password

INZNWSCFG NWSCFG(MYCONFIG)
OPTION(*CHGSPAUT)
SPAUT(username password)

This command changes the user name and password used to secure the service processor.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF0910
Password not valid for system.

CPF96CB
Network server configuration &1 not found.

CPF96CD
Network server configuration type &2 is not valid.

CPF96CE
Password matches the previous value.

CPF96CF
Errors processing network server configuration &1.

CPF9801
Object &2 in library &3 not found.

CPF9802
Not authorized to object &2 in &3.

CPF9803
Cannot allocate object &2 in library &3.

CPF9899
Error occurred during processing of command.

Top