Create Tape Category (CRTTAPCGY)

Create Tape Category (CRTTAPCGY)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Create Tape Category (CRTTAPCGY) command creates a user defined category name and assigns it to a system name. A category may be used to "group" volume identifiers together. The following special value categories have been provided by the operating system and are defined for all library devices.

- *NOSHARE
For D/T3494 tape media libraries the volume identifier may only be used by the system that owns the rights of the *NOSHARE. Other tape media libraries can have cartridge identifiers in the *NOSHARE category, but the security of the *NOSHARE is not handled by the operating system.

- *SHARE400
The cartridge identifier may be shared by all systems that are attached to the library device.

- *IPL
This category should be used for cartridge identifiers that would be used in an alternate IPL. The management of the cartridges in the category must be done by the user.

- *NL
The cartridge identifier in this category must have no logical volume identifier in order for it to be used. If it has a logical volume identifier, an Initialize Tape (INZTAP) command must be done to initialize the tape volume to a non-labeled tape before it can be used.

- *INSERT
The cartridge identifier has been placed in the library device, but has not yet been added to the system. An Add Tape Cartridge (ADDTAPCTG) command must be done before any I/O may be done to the tape volume.

- *EJECT
The volume identifier has been removed from the system by a Remove Tape Cartridge (RMVTAPCTG) command and is no longer usable by the library device.

- *CNV
When a tape in this category is unloaded by specifying ENDOPT(*UNLOAD), the system will automatically export the tape to the convenience station.

- *SYSGEN
The cartridge ID exists in the *SYSGEN category. *SYSGEN category is used for all cartridges when the library device description is in *SYSGEN mode. A library device description is in *SYSGEN mode when the GENCTGID parameter is *SYSGEN in the device description. *SYSGEN mode is used to generate identifiers for non-bar code libraries instead of loading and reading all the logical volume identifiers directly from the tape. If the library device is in *SYSGEN mode, cartridges cannot be moved from the *SYSGEN category.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
CGY | Category | Element list | Required, Positional 1
Element 1: Category name | Character value
Element 2: Category system | Character value, *CURRENT

Top

Category (CGY)

Specifies the category being created.

Element 1: Category name

character-value
Specify the name of the category to create.

Element 2: Category system

Identifies the system the category belongs to. The system name is obtained from the current system name field of a Display Network Attributes (DSPNETA) command.

*CURRENT
The system currently running the command.

character-value
Specify the name of the system that the category belongs to. Do not attempt to create a category and specify an owning system other than *CURRENT, unless the category has previously been defined on the system specified. For example, If system A and system B are attached to library device LIB01, then CRTTAPCGY CGY(CAT1 A) creating category CAT1 and assigning as its owner system A is required on system A before a CRTTAPCGY CGY(CAT1 A) creating category CAT1 and assigning as its owner system A can be done on system B. If both of these create commands are successful, CAT1 owned by system A is logically considered the same category and can be used for cartridges in library LIB01.

Top

Examples

CRTTAPCGY CGY(CAT1 RCHAS215)

This command creates a user defined category named CAT1 and assigns as its primary owner system RCHAS215.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF67DD
Category not created.

CPF67E2
Category already exists

Top