Determining the size of a message file

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Defining message descriptions > Creating a message file > Creating a message file

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Defining message descriptions > Creating a message file

Determining the size of a message file
To determine the size of a message file, you
need to use this formula. The Add Message Description (ADDMSGD) command
parameters are given in parentheses.
Message index equals 42 bytes base plus the length of the message.
Message text (MSG) equals 16 bytes base plus the length of the message.
Message help information (SECLVL), if any, equals 16 bytes base plus the
length of the message help.
Formats (FMT), if any, equal 14 bytes plus (3 x number of FMTS).
Type and length (TYPE and LEN) equal 48 bytes.
Special value (SPCVAL) equals 2 plus (64 x number of SPCVALs).
Values (VALUES) equal 32 x (number of VALUES).
Range (RANGE) equals 64 bytes.
Relation (REL) equals the length of the relation.
Default (DFT) equals the length of the default reply.
Default program, log problem, and dump list (DFTPGM, LOGPRB, DMPLST) equal
35 plus (2 x number in DMPLST).
ALROPT equals 12 bytes.

The smallest possible entry in a message file is 59 bytes and the
largest possible entry is 5764 bytes. The following table describes the largest
possible entry.
Table 1. The largest possible entryAttribute
Largest possible
entry

Message index
42 bytes

Message text
148 bytes

Message help text
3016 bytes

99 formats
311 bytes

Type and length
48 bytes

20 special values
1282 bytes

20 values
640 bytes

Default reply value
32 bytes

Default program and dump list
233 bytes

Alert option
12 bytes

In the following example, the Create Message File (CRTMSGF) command
creates the message file USRMSG:
CRTMSGF MSGF(QGPL/USRMSG) +
TEXT('Message file for user-created messages')
If you are creating a message file to be used with the DSPLY
operation code in RPG for i5/OS®,
the message file must be named QUSERMSG.

Parent topic: Creating a message file

Related information
Add Message Description (ADDMSGD) command
Create Message File (CRTMSGF) command