Add Problem Action Entry (ADDPRBACNE)

Add Problem Action Entry (ADDPRBACNE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Add Problem Action Entry (ADDPRBACNE) command adds an entry to the specified problem filter. This entry describes the actions to take for a problem entry. A problem entry is assigned to the specified group by a selection entry in the specified problem filter.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
FILTER | Filter | Qualified object name | Required, Positional 1
Qualifier 1: Filter | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
GROUP | Group | Name | Required, Positional 2
ASNUSER | User assigned | Simple name, *NOCHG, *NONE | Optional
SNDDTAQ | Send to data queue | Single values: *NONE
Other values (up to 5 repetitions): Element list | Optional
Element 1: Data queue | Qualified object name
Qualifier 1: Data queue | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
Element 2: Data queue key | Character value, *NONE, X''

Top

Filter (FILTER)

Specifies the name of the filter.

This is a required parameter.

Qualifier 1: Filter

name
Specify the name of the filter.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the library list for the current thread are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is used to locate the filter. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, the QGPL library is used.

name
Specify the name of the library where the filter is located.

Top

Group (GROUP)

Specifies the group for which the actions are applied. The group name is assigned from selection criteria from a selection entry in the filter. Selection entries are added to the filter with the ADDPRBSLTE command.

This is a required parameter.

Top

User assigned (ASNUSER)

Specifies the user assigned to the problem log entry.

*NOCHG
No new value is assigned to the problem log entry.

*NONE
No user is assigned to the problem log entry.

assigned-user
Specify a user name.

Top

Send to data queue (SNDDTAQ)

Specifies the data queue for the problem notification record. Keyed data queues are supported.

Single values

*NONE
No data queue is used.

Other values (up to 5 repetitions)

Element 1: Data queue

Qualifier 1: Data queue

name
Specify the name of the data queue.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the library list for the current thread are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is used to locate the data queue. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, the QGPL library is used.

name
Specify the name of the library where the data queue is located.

Element 2: Data queue key

*NONE
No key is used on the data queue.

character-value
Specify the data queue key.

NOTES:

- If an exact match is not found for the group name when a filter is applied, the default action entry is used to assign actions. The default action entry is automatically added to the filter when it is created. The default values are ASNUSER(*NONE) and SNDDTAQ(*NONE).

- A keyed data queue is a queue with a key assigned to each entry on the queue. When retrieving entries, a key can be specified and the entries with that key are retrieved on a FIFO order. The key that is specified on the *SNDDTAQ parameter is assigned to the problem notification record when placed on a keyed data queue.

An 80-byte record is enqueued on the data queue specified by the user. This record is received when the QRCVDTAQ program is called. The data queue does not have to be used solely for problems; alerts and problems can share the same data queue.

If a key is specified, it is used when enqueueing the record on the queue. If the data queue is non-keyed, the record is enqueued without a key.

Note: The time stamp used is the system standard time stamp. This time is already stored in the problem record.

Record Format

Position Type Value Description
-------- ---- ------------- --------------------------------
1-10 CHAR *PRBFTR Problem filtering notification
11-11 CHAR Function Function performed
1 - Problem created
2 - Problem changed
3 - Problem deleted
12-19 CHAR Function TOD TOD time stamp for function
20-29 CHAR Group Group problem was filtered into
30-39 CHAR Problem ID Problem ID number
40-59 CHAR Origin System System where problem originated
60-60 CHAR Last Event Last event committed into the
history log (see note)
61-68 CHAR Event TOD TOD time stamp for Last Event
69-80 CHAR Reserved Reserved for future use

Note: Valid Last Event values are the following:

'01'X Problem entry opened
'02'X Request received
'03'X Opened by Alert
'04'X Reported by HMC
'05'X Reported by Service Partition
'06'X Reported by current i5/OS Partition
'10'X Problem analyzed
'11'X Verification test ran
'12'X Recovery procedure ran
'20'X Prepared to report
'21'X Service request sent
'22'X Problem answered
'23'X Response sent
'24'X Reported by voice
'25'X Fixes transmitted
'30'X Fix verified
'41'X Analyzed remotely
'42'X Remote verification ran
'43'X Remote recovery ran
'50'X Alert created
'51'X APAR created
'52'X APAR data saved
'54'X APAR data restored
'55'X APAR data deleted
'60'X Problem changed by Change Problem (CHGPRB) command
'61'X Problem deleted by Delete Problem (DLTPRB) command
'99'X Problem entry closed

Top

Examples

ADDPRBACNE FILTER(MYLIB/MYFILTER) GROUP(IOWA)
ASNUSER(SYSOPR)) SNDDTAQ(*LIBL/PROBDTAQ)

The actions defined for group IOWA are: enqueue the problem on data queue PROBDTAQ; and assign the problem to user SYSOPR.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF2150
Object information function failed.

CPF2151
Operation failed for &2 in &1 type *&3.

CPF7A82
Error occurred while applying the problem filter.

CPF812F
Filter damaged.

CPF91DB
Group &4 already exists.

CPF91DE
Filter &1/&2 at maximum size.

CPF91EB
Filter type &3 not correct for this operation.

CPF91EC
Internal processing error occurred.

CPF91E8
Internal processing error occurred.

CPF9802
Not authorized to object &2 in &3.

CPF9803
Cannot allocate object &2 in library &3.

CPF9807
One or more libraries in library list deleted.

CPF9808
Cannot allocate one or more libraries on library list.

Top