subselect

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > Queries

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries

subselect
The subselect is a component of the fullselect.
select-clausefrom-clausewhere-clausehierarchical-query-clausegroup-by-clausehaving-clauseorder-by-clausefetch-first-clause
A subselect specifies a result table derived from the
tables or views identified in the FROM clause. The derivation can
be described as a sequence of operations in which the result of each
operation is input for the next. (This is only a way of describing
the subselect. The method used to perform the derivation may be quite
different from this description. If portions of the subselect do not
actually need to be executed for the correct result to be obtained,
they may or may not be executed.)
When a subselect
directly or indirectly references a table for which row or column
access control is enforced, the rules that are defined in the row
permissions or column masks affect how the rows in the result table
are derived. Typically those rules are based on the authorization
ID of the process.
A scalar-subselect is
a subselect, enclosed in parentheses, that returns a single result
row and a single result column. If the result of the subselect is
no rows, then the null value is returned. An error is returned if
there is more than one row in the result.
The sequence of the (hypothetical) operations is:
FROM clause
hierarchical-query clause
WHERE clause
GROUP BY clause
HAVING clause
SELECT clause
ORDER BY clause
FETCH FIRST clause

select-clause
The SELECT clause specifies the columns of the final result
table.
from-clause
The FROM clause specifies an intermediate result table.
Hierarchical queries
Hierarchical queries are a form of recursive query that
provides support for retrieving a hierarchy, such as a bill of materials,
from relational data using a CONNECT BY clause.
where-clause
The WHERE clause specifies an intermediate result table
that consists of those rows of R for which the search-condition is
true. R is the result of the FROM clause of the statement.
group-by-clause
The GROUP BY clause specifies an intermediate result table
that consists of a grouping of the rows of R. R is the result of the
previous clause of the subselect.
having-clause
The HAVING clause specifies an intermediate result table
that consists of those groups of R for which the search-condition is
true. R is the result of the previous clause of the subselect. If
this clause is not GROUP BY, R is considered a single group with no
grouping expressions.
order-by-clause
The ORDER BY clause specifies an ordering of the rows of
the result table.
offset-clause
The offset-clause sets the number of rows to skip
before any rows are retrieved. It lets the database manager know that
the application does not want to start retrieving rows until offset-row-count rows
have been skipped. If offset-clause is not specified, the default
is equivalent to OFFSET 0 ROWS. An attempt to skip more rows than
the number of rows in the intermediate result table is handled the
same way as an empty result table.
fetch-first-clause
The fetch-first-clause sets a maximum
number of rows that can be retrieved. It lets the database manager
know that the application does not want to retrieve more than fetch-first-row-count rows,
regardless of how many rows there are in the intermediate result table.
An attempt to fetch beyond fetch-first-row-count rows is handled
the same way as normal end of data.
Examples of a subselect
subselect can be used in many different ways.

Parent topic: Queries