OUTPUT parameter

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters > Commonly used parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters

OUTPUT parameter
The OUTPUT parameter specifies whether
the output from the display command is displayed, printed, or written to an
output file.
Basically, the same information is provided whether the output
is displayed, printed, or written; only the format is changed as necessary
to present the information in the best format for the device. For example,
because there are more lines on a printed page than on a display, column headings
are not repeated as often in printed output.
If the output is to be
shown on the display, it will be sent to the workstation that issued the
display command. It will be shown in the format specified in the display device
file used by that display command. A different device file is used for the
output of each display command, and the file is different for displayed, printed,
or written file output. In most cases, the name of the command is part of
the file names of either type of device file.
If the output will be
printed, it is spooled and an entry is placed on the job's output queue. The
output can be printed depending on which device is specified in the Start
Printer Writer (STRPRTWTR) command.
Note: Although the IBM -supplied
printer files are shipped with SPOOL(*YES) specified, they can be changed
to SPOOL(*NO) by the Override with Printer File (OVRPRTF) and Change
Printer File (CHGPRTF) commands.
If the OUTPUT parameter
is not specified in the display command, the default value * is assumed. The
output resulting from this value depends on the type of job that entered the
command. The following table shows how the output is produced for interactive
and batch jobs.
Table 1. Output for interactive and batchOutput
Interactive job
Batch job

*  
Displayed  
Printed  

*PRINT
Printed
Printed

Values allowed*
Output requested by an interactive job is shown on the display. Output
requested by a batch job is printed with the job's spooled output.
*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output.
*OUTFILE
The only output is to be written to a specified database file.

Parent topic: Commonly used parameters