Delete Distribution List (DLTDSTL)

Delete Distribution List (DLTDSTL)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Delete Distribution List (DLTDSTL) command deletes an existing distribution list from the system distribution directory.

Restriction: You must have security administrator authority to delete a distribution list owned by another user. No special authority is needed to delete a distribution list that you own.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
LSTID | List identifier | Values (up to 300 repetitions): Element list | Required, Positional 1
Element 1: List ID | Character value
Element 2: List ID qualifier | Character value
CMDCHRID | Command character identifier | Single values: *SYSVAL, *DEVD
Other values: Element list | Optional
Element 1: Graphic character set | Integer
Element 2: Code page | Integer

Top

List identifier (LSTID)

Specifies the two-part list identifier of the distribution list being deleted. A maximum of 300 list IDs (both parts) can be specified. You can specify a maximum of 8 characters for each part of each list ID.

The possible list identifier value is:

list-ID
Specify the list identifier (ID) of the distribution list.

The possible list qualifier value is:

list-ID-qualifier
Specify the list ID qualifier of the distribution list.

Note: The distribution list identifier has two parts, the ID and the qualifier, separated by at least one space. If lowercase characters are specified, the system changes them to uppercase.

The naming rules for the two-part list ID are identical to the rules for the user ID and address. A complete description of these rules is in the SNA Distribution Services book, SC41-5410.

You can enter multiple values for this parameter.

This is a required parameter.

Top

Command character identifier (CMDCHRID)

Specifies the character identifier (graphic character set and code page) for the data being entered as command parameter values.

If the value for the Distribution identifier (DSTID) parameter and User identifier (USRID) parameter are being read from an output file created by the Query Distribution (QRYDST) command, use '930 500' for the value of this parameter.

Note:

- Only the user ID and address, system name and group, department, and the X.400 O/R parameters are translated to the graphic character set identifier (GCID) specified on this parameter. All other parameter values that you specify are stored exactly as they are entered; the GCID value is stored with them.

- If this command is run interactively, the default GCID value is taken from the display device description. If it is run in batch, the default GCID value is taken from the QCHRID system value. You can override these values by specifying a specific character set and code page on this parameter.

*SYSVAL
The system determines the graphic character set and code page values for the command parameters from the QCHRID system value.

*DEVD
The system determines the graphic character set and code page values from the display device description where this command was entered. This option is valid only when entered from an interactive job. If this option is specified in a batch job, an error occurs.

Element 1: Graphic character set

1-32767
Specify the graphic character set to use.

Element 2: Code page

1-32767
Specify the code page to use.

Top

Examples

DLTDSTL LSTID((DEPT48K DLIST) (ISMGRS DSTLIST))

This command deletes the two distribution lists, DEPT48K DLIST and ISMGRS DSTLIST, if they exist.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF9024
System cannot get correct record to finish operation.

CPF905C
Error occurred trying to find a translation table.

CPF9094
&1 distribution lists deleted. &2 lists not deleted.

CPF9096
Cannot use CMDCHRID(*DEVD), DOCCHRID(*DEVD) in batch job.

CPF9838
User profile storage limit exceeded.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

CPF9846
Error while processing file &1 in library &2.

Top