MQSEND

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

MQSEND
The MQSEND function sends a message to a specified MQSeries® location.
MQSEND(send-service,service-policy,msg-data,correl-id1)

The MQSEND function sends the message data that is contained
in msg-data to the MQSeries location
that is specified by send-service, using the quality-of-service
policy that is defined in service-policy. The message is sent
using the MQSeries built-in
format MQFMT_STRING. send-service
An expression that returns a value that is a built-in character
string or graphic string data type that is not a LOB. The value of
the expression must not be an empty string or a string with trailing
blanks. The expression must have an actual length that is no greater
than 48 bytes. The value of the expression must refer to a service
point that is defined in the SYSIBM.MQSERVICE table. A service point
is a logical end-point from where a message is sent or received. Service
point definitions include the name of the MQSeries queue manager and queue. For more
information about MQSeries Application
Messaging, see SQL Programming.If send-service is not
specified or the null value, DB2®.DEFAULT.SERVICE
is used.

service-policy
An expression that returns a value that is a built-in character
string or graphic string data type that is not a LOB. The value of
the expression must not be an empty string or a string with trailing
blanks. The expression must have an actual length that is no greater
than 48 bytes. The value of the expression must refer to a service
policy that is defined in the SYSIBM.MQPOLICY table. A service policy
specifies a set of quality-of-service options that are to be applied
to this messaging operation. These options include message priority
and message persistence. For more information about MQSeries Application Messaging, see SQL Programming.If service-policy is
not specified or the null value, DB2.DEFAULT.POLICY
is used.

msg-data
An expression that returns a value that is a built-in character
string data type. If the expression is a CLOB, the value must not
be longer than 2 MB. Otherwise, the value must not be longer than
32000 bytes. The value of the expression is the message data that
is to be sent via MQSeries.
A null value, an empty string, and a fixed length string with trailing
blanks are all considered valid values.
correl-id
An expression that returns a value that is a built-in character
string or graphic string data type that is not a LOB. The expression
must have an actual length that is no greater than 24 bytes. The value
of the expression specifies the correlation identifier that is associated
with this message. A correlation identifier is often specified in
request-and-reply scenarios to associate requests with replies. For
more information about MQSeries Application
Messaging, see SQL Programming.A fixed length string with
trailing blanks is considered a valid value. However, when the correl-id is
specified on another request such as MQRECEIVE, the identical correl-id must
be specified to be recognized as a match. For example, specifying
a value of 'test' for correl-id on MQSEND does not
match a correl-id value of 'test ' (with trailing blanks) specified
subsequently on an MQRECEIVE request.
If correl-id is
not specified or is an empty string or the null value, a correlation
identifier is not sent.

The result of the function is a varying-length string
with a length attribute of 1. The result is nullable, even though
a null value is never returned. The result is '1' if the function
was successful or '0' if unsuccessful.
The CCSID of the result is the default SBCS CCSID at the
current server.
NotesPrerequisites: In
order to use the MQSeries functions, IBM® MQSeries for IBM i
must be installed, configured, and operational.
ExampleThis example sends the string "Testing 123" to the default service
(DB2.DEFAULT.SERVICE), using
the default policy (DB2.DEFAULT.POLICY),
with no correlation identifier.   SELECT MQSEND ('Testing 123')
FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1

This example sends the string "Testing 345" to the service "MYSERVICE",
using the policy "MYPOLICY", with no correlation identifier.    SELECT MQSEND ('MYSERVICE','MYPOLICY','Testing 345')
FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1

This example sends the string "Testing 678" to the service "MYSERVICE",
using the policy "MYPOLICY", with correlation identifier "TEST3".    SELECT MQSEND ('MYSERVICE','MYPOLICY','Testing 678','TEST3')
FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1

This example sends the string "Testing 901" to the service "MYSERVICE",
using the default policy (DB2.DEFAULT.POLICY),
and no correlation identifier.    SELECT MQSEND ('MYSERVICE','Testing 901')
FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1

Parent topic: Scalar functions