Messages

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > System operation control > System operation control > IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL commands > CL commands

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > System operation control

Messages
A message is a communication sent from one user, program, or procedure
to another.
System messages can report both status information and error conditions.
Most data processing systems provide communications between the system and
the operator to handle errors and other conditions that occur during processing.
The i5/OS® operating system
also provides message handling functions that support two-way communications
between programs and system users, between programs, between procedures within
a program, and between system users. Two types of messages are supported:

Immediate messages, which are created by the program or system user when
they are sent and are not permanently stored in the system.
Predefined messages, which are created before they are used. These messages
are placed in a message file when they are created, and retrieved from that
file when they are used.

Because messages can be used to provide communications between programs,
between procedures in a program, and between programs and users, using the i5/OS message handling functions
should be considered when developing applications. The following concepts
of message handling are important to application development:
Messages can be defined in messages files, which are outside the programs
that use them, and variable information can be provided in the message text
when a message is sent. Because messages are defined outside the programs,
the programs do not have to be changed when the messages are changed. This
approach also allows the same program to be used with message files containing
translations of the messages into different languages.
Messages are sent to and received from message queues, which are separate
objects on the system. A message sent to a queue can remain on the queue
until it is explicitly received by a program or workstation user.
A program can send messages to a user who requested the program regardless
of what workstation that user has signed on to. Messages do not have to be
sent to a specific device; one program can be used from different workstations
without change.

Message descriptions
A message description defines a message to the i5/OS operating system.
Message queues
When a message is sent to a procedure, a program, or a system user,
it is placed on a message queue associated with that procedure, program, or
user. The procedure, program, or user sees the message by receiving it from
the queue.

Parent topic: System operation control

Related tasks
Messages

Related information
i5/OS globalization

i5/OS CL command names

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL commands

CL command names
The command name identifies the function that will be performed
by the program that is called when the command is run. Most command names
consist of a combination of a verb (or action) followed by a noun or phrase
that identifies the receiver of the action (or object being acted on): (command
= verb + object acted on).
Abbreviated words, typically one to three letters, make up the
command name. This reduces the amount of typing that is required to enter
the command.
For example, you can create, delete, or display a library;
so the verb abbreviations CRT, DLT, and DSP are joined to the abbreviation
for library, LIB. The result is three commands that can operate on a library: CRTLIB, DLTLIB,
and DSPLIB. In another example, one of the CL commands
is the Send Message command. You would use the Send Message (SNDMSG) command
to send a message from a user to a message queue.
The conventions for
naming the combination verb and object commands are as follows:
The primary convention (as just shown) is to use three letters from each
word in the descriptive command name to form the abbreviated command name
that is recognized by the system.
The secondary convention is to use single letters from the ending word
or words in the command title for the end of the command name, such as the
three single letters DLO on the Delete Document Library Object (DLTDLO) command.
An occasional convention is to use single letters in the middle of the
command name (typically between commonly used three-character verbs and objects),
such as the letters CL in the Create CL Program (CRTCLPGM) command.

Some command names consist of the verb only, such as the Move
(MOV) command, or an object only, such as the Data (DATA) command.
A few commands have an i5/OS® command
name, and can also be called using one or more alternate names that may be
familiar to users of systems other than the i5/OS system.
An alternate name is known as an alias, such as the name CD
is an alias for the Change Current Directory (CHGCURDIR) command.

Abbreviations of CL commands and keywords
Most CL command names that are part of the i5/OS operating system and other
licensed programs that run on the operating system follow a consistent
naming style.

Parent topic: CL commands

Related concepts
Simple and qualified object names
Object naming rules

Related reference
OBJTYPE parameter