Proxy commands

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining and documenting commands

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands

Proxy commands
Proxy commands are used to create shortcuts to target commands.
A proxy command differs from a typical IBM® i command in its ability
to run a target command, rather than a command processing program.
Use the Create Proxy Command (CRTPRXCMD) to
create a proxy command. Create Proxy Command (CRTPRXCMD) requires
a Command name (CMD) and a Target command
(TGTCMD). Optional parameters include a Text description
(TEXT), Authority (AUT) and a Replace command (REPLACE) option. For
example, to create a proxy command that has a target command of QSYS/DSPJOB,
enter the following command:
CRTPRXCMD CMD(MYLIB/PCMD1) TGTCMD(QSYS/DSPJOB) TEXT(‘dspjob
proxy')
Specifying a proxy command for the TGTCMD parameter is allowed.
A proxy “chain” can be up to five proxy commands in length, ending
with a sixth non-proxy command. Running a proxy command with a chain
of more than five proxy commands causes a CPD0196 error “Number of
chained proxy commands exceeds 5.”
When you create a proxy command, you do not specify command definition
source. A proxy command does not contain any parameter information,
prompt control information, or interparameter dependency information.
When a proxy command is used, all that information is inherited from
the target command defined in the proxy command. You specify all the
same parameters for the proxy command that you would for the target
command.
Use the Change Proxy Command (CHGPRXCMD) command,
to change a proxy command. Use the Delete Command (DLTCMD) command
to delete a proxy command.
To run or process a command that is “resolved to” through a proxy
chain, the user must have the correct authority for that command and
library. The user must also have *USE authority for each of the proxy
commands and libraries in the proxy command chain.
Since proxy commands run other commands, attempting to register
an exit program for a proxy command is not allowed. Attempting to
register an exit program for a proxy command causes error message
CPF019A to be issued. When a proxy command is run and the non-proxy
command that it resolves to has a registered exit program, the proxy
chain that was followed is placed in the RTVC0100 or CHGC0100 returned
format data.

Parent topic: Defining and documenting commands

Related information
Create Proxy Command (CRTPRXCMD) command
Change Proxy Command (CHGPRXCMD) command
Delete Command (DLTCMD) command