Binary strings

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Data types > Data types

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Data types

Binary strings
A binary string is a sequence of bytes. Unlike a
character string which usually contains text data, a binary string
is used to hold non-traditional data such as pictures. The length
of a binary string is the number of bytes in the sequence. A binary
string has a CCSID of 65535. Only character strings of FOR BIT DATA
are compatible with binary strings.
Fixed-length binary stringsWhen fixed-length binary-string distinct
types, columns, and variables are defined, the length attribute is
specified and all values have the same length. For a fixed-length
binary string, the length attribute must be between 1 through 32 766
inclusive. See SQL limits for more information.
Varying-length binary stringsThe types
of varying-length binary strings are:
VARBINARY
BLOB

A Binary Large OBject (BLOB) column is useful for storing
large amounts of noncharacter data, such as pictures, voice, and mixed
media. Another use is to hold structured data for exploitation by
distinct types and user-defined functions.
Distinct types, columns,
and variables all have length attributes. When varying-length binary-string
distinct types, columns, and variables are defined, the maximum length
is specified and this becomes the length attribute. Actual values
may have a smaller length. For a varying-length binary string, the
length attribute must be between 1 through 32 740 bytes inclusive.
For a BLOB string, the length attribute must be between 1 through
2 147 483 647 inclusive. See SQL limits for
more information.
Binary-string variablesA variable with
a binary string type can be defined in all host languages except REXX, RPG/400®, and COBOL/400.
BINARY fixed-length binary-string variables can be defined in
all host languages except REXX, RPG/400,
and COBOL/400. In ILE RPG, a BINARY fixed-length binary-string variable is declared
using the SQLTYPE keyword.
In all other languages, an SQL TYPE IS BINARY clause is used.

VARBINARY varying-length binary-string variables can be defined
in all host languages except REXX, RPG/400,
and COBOL/400. In ILE RPG, a VARBINARY varying-length binary-string variable
is declared using the SQLTYPE keyword.
In all other languages, an SQL TYPE IS VARBINARY clause is used.

BLOB varying-length binary-string variables can be defined in
all host languages except REXX, RPG/400,
and COBOL/400. In ILE RPG, a BLOB varying-length binary-string variable is declared
using the SQLTYPE keyword.
In all other languages, an SQL TYPE IS BLOB clause is used.

Parent topic: Data types