i5/OS objects

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL concepts

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts

i5/OS objects
An i5/OS® object is a named unit that exists (occupies
space) in storage, and on which operations are performed by the operating
system. i5/OS objects provide
the means through which all data processing information is stored and processed
by the i5/OS operating
system.
Objects are the basic units on which commands perform operations. For example,
programs and files are objects. Through objects you can find, maintain, and
process your data on the system. You need only to know what object and what
function (command) you want to use; you do not need to know the storage address
of your data to use it.
CL commands perform operations on the i5/OS objects.
Several types of i5/OS objects
are created and used in the control language. i5/OS objects
have the following characteristics in common:
Objects have a set of descriptive attributes that are defined when the
object is created.
Objects that have to be used by the system to perform a specific function
must be specified in the CL command that performs that function.
Objects have a set of attributes that describe it and give the specific
values assigned for those attributes.
Generally, objects are independent of all other objects. However, some
objects must be created before other objects can be created; for example,
a logical file cannot be created if the physical file it must be based on
does not exist.
Objects must be created before other operations that use the object are
performed. Descriptions of the create commands (those commands that begin
with the letters CRT) give more information about the object types that they
create.
Every i5/OS object
that is used by the control language has a name. The object name specified
in a CL command identifies which object is used by the operating system to
perform the function of the command.
Objects have either a simple, qualified, or generic name.

The system supports various unique types of objects. Some types identify
objects common to many data processing systems, such as:
Files
Programs
Commands
Libraries
Queues
Modules
Service programs

Other object types are less familiar, such as:
User profiles
Job descriptions
Subsystem descriptions
Device descriptions

Different object types have different operational characteristics. These
differences make each object type unique. For example, because a file is
an object that contains data, its operational characteristics differ from
those of a program, which contains instructions.
Each object has a name. The object name and the object type are used to
identify an object. The object name is assigned by the user creating the
object. The object type is determined by the command used to create the object.
For example, if a program was created and given the name OEUPDT (for order
entry update), the program could always be referred to by that name.
The system uses the object name (OEUPDT) and object type (program) to locate
the object and perform operations on it. Several objects can have the same
name, but they must either be different object types or be stored in different
libraries.
The system maintains integrity by preventing the misuse of certain functions,
depending on the object type. For example, the command CALL causes a program
object to run. If you specified CALL and named a file, the command would
fail unless there happened to be a program with the same name.

Library objects
A library is an object that is used to group related
objects, and to find objects by name when they are used. Thus, a library is
a directory to a group of objects.
External object types
Many types of external objects are stored in libraries.
External objects of integrated file system are stored in directories.
Simple and qualified object names
The name of a specific object that is located in a library can
be specified as a simple name or as a qualified name.
Generic object names
Generic object names can be used when referring to multiple
objects with similar names.
Object naming rules
These rules are used to name all i5/OS objects
used in control language (CL) commands. The parameter summary table for each
CL command shows whether a simple object name, a qualified name, or a generic
name can be specified.

Parent topic: CL concepts

Related concepts
Objects and libraries