Create Font Table (CRTFNTTBL)

Create Font Table (CRTFNTTBL)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Create Font Table (CRTFNTTBL) command allows the user to create a font mapping table to be used by Print Services Facility (PSF). These tables allow the user to change, add, and remove entries in a font table that controls:

- Host-resident to printer-resident font character set mapping

- Printer-resident to host-resident font character set mapping

- Host-resident to printer-resident code page mapping

- Printer-resident to host-resident code page mapping

- Printer-resident to printer-resident font substitution mapping

In performing the printer to host and host to printer font mapping (first four tables above), the user tables are searched first for a match. If no match is found, then the system font or code page tables are searched.

For the printer-resident to printer-resident font substitution table, the following processing is done by the system:

- If the printer-resident font specified in the print job is supported by the printer, then it is used. The printer-resident to printer-resident font substitution table is not searched.

- If the printer-resident font specified in the print job is not supported by the printer, then the printer-resident to printer-resident font substitution table is searched.

If a matching entry is found in the printer-resident font substitution table and the entry is supported by the printer, then the specified substitute font in the printer-resident font substitution table is used.

If a matching entry is not found in the printer-resident font substitution table or if the specified substitute font is not supported by the printer, then the system will use its internal font substitution tables to perform the font substitution.

Refer to Printer Device Programming, SC41-5713 for more information on font mapping tables.

Restrictions:

- The PSF feature is required to use this command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
FNTTBL | Font table | Single values: *PHFCS, *HPFCS, *PHCP, *HPCP
Other values: Qualified object name | Required, Positional 1
Qualifier 1: Font table | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *CURLIB
TEXT | Text 'description' | Character value, *BLANK | Optional
AUT | Authority | Name, *LIBCRTAUT, *CHANGE, *ALL, *USE, *EXCLUDE | Optional

Top

Font table (FNTTBL)

Specifies the name of the font table to be created. Only one font mapping table can be created on the system for each of the single values allowed for this parameter. When one of these values is specified, a font mapping table is created in library QUSRSYS with one of the following names:

Single value Font table
------------ ----------
*PHFCS QPHFCS
*PHCP QPHCP
*HPFCS QHPFCS
*HPCP QHPCP

You can also create a printer-resident to printer-resident font substitution table. Multiple printer-resident to printer-resident font substitution tables can be created on the system.

Single values

*PHFCS
The printer-resident to host-resident font character set mapping table is created. When this table is created, it will be named QPHFCS and will be created in library QUSRSYS. This table would be used when your application references printer-resident fonts and the printer, such as the 3827, 3825, 3820, 3900 Model 1, does not support resident fonts. Print Services Facility (PSF) must map the references from printer-resident fonts to host-resident fonts and download them.

*PHCP
The printer-resident to host-resident code page mapping table is created. When this table is created, it will be named QPHCP and will be created in library QUSRSYS. This table is like the QPHFCS table, in that it is used when the application references printer-resident code pages and the printer being used does not support printer-resident code pages. The printer-resident code page must be mapped to a host-resident code page and downloaded to the printer by PSF.

*HPFCS
The host-resident to printer-resident font character set mapping table is created. When this table is created, it will be named QHPFCS and will be created in library QUSRSYS. This table is used when your application references host-resident fonts (font character sets and code pages) and the printer, such as the 4224, 4234, 4230, 64XX, does not support downloading of host-resident fonts. PSF must map the references from host-resident fonts to printer-resident fonts.

*HPCP
The host-resident to printer-resident code page mapping table is created. When this table is created, it will be named QHPCP and will be created in library QUSRSYS. This table is like the QHPFCS table, in that it is used when the application references host-resident code pages and the printer being used does not support host-resident code pages. The host-resident code page must be mapped to a printer-resident code page and downloaded to the printer by PSF.

Qualifier 1: Font table

name
Specify the name of the printer-resident to printer-resident font substitution table to be created.
The name of the font table must be specified when a printer-resident to printer-resident font substitution table is created. This printer-resident font substitution table should be used when all three of the following conditions exist:

- You are printing to a PSF attached printer.

- Your application specifies a printer-resident font which is not supported by the printer you are using.

- You want to specify a different substitute printer-resident font than the one selected by the system.

To use a printer-resident to printer-resident font substitution table with a particular PSF printer, you need to specify the name of the font table on the FNTTBL parameter of the Create PSF Configuration (CRTPSFCFG) or Change PSF Configuration (CHGPSFCFG) command.

Qualifier 2: Library

*CURLIB
The current library is used to store the font table. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, the QGPL library is used.

name
Specify the name of the library where you want to store the font table.

Top

Text 'description' (TEXT)

Specifies the text that briefly describes the font table.

*BLANK
No text is specified.

'character-value'
Specify no more than 50 characters of text, enclosed in apostrophes.

Top

Authority (AUT)

Specifies the authority you are giving to users who do not have specific authority to the object, who are not on an authorization list, and whose group profile has no specific authority to the object.

*LIBCRTAUT
The system determines the authority for the object by using the value specified for the CRTAUT parameter on the Create Library (CRTLIB) command for the library containing the object to be created. If the value specified on the CRTAUT parameter is changed, the new value will not affect any existing objects.

*CHANGE
Change authority allows the user to change and perform basic functions on the object. Change authority provides object operational authority and all data authorities.

*ALL
The user can perform all operations except those limited to the owner or controlled by authorization list management authority. The user can control the object's existence, specify the security for the object, change the object, perform basic functions on the object, and change ownership of the object.

*USE
Use authority provides object operational authority, read authority, and execute authority.

*EXCLUDE
The user cannot access the object.

name
Specify the name of an authorization list to be used for authority to the object. Users included in the authorization list are granted authority to the object as specified in the list. The authorization list must exist when the object is created.

Top

Examples

CRTFNTTBL FNTTBL(*PHFCS)
TEXT('Printer to Host Font Mapping Table')

This command creates a Printer to Host Font Mapping Table. The table will be named QPHFCS and created into library QUSRSYS. The table is created with no entries. Entries can be added or changed by running the Add Font Table Entry (ADDFNTTBLE) and Change Font Table Entry (CHGFNTTBLE) commands.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF2283
Authorization list &1 does not exist.

PQT0121
Font table &1 not created in library &2.

CPF9810
Library &1 not found.

CPF9820
Not authorized to use library &1.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

Top