CL commands by product

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Control language

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language

CL commands by product
CL commands by product lists all the major CL commands
for the system, grouped by product.
This page provides a link to each of the product's CL
commands. If you are not sure which product list to look in, consider
using the CL command
finder.
To display CL commands for a particular product, select one
of the following product lists:

IBM Advanced Function Printing Utilities commands
The IBM Advanced Function Printing Utilities commands provide
support for converting printed output forms, printing Portable Document
Format (PDF) data, and starting Advanced Function Printing utilities.
IBM Advanced Job Scheduler for i commands
The IBM Advanced Job Scheduler for i commands create, display,
and work with jobs using the Advanced Job Scheduler.
IBM Backup, Recovery and Media Services for i commands
The IBM Backup, Recovery and Media Services for i commands
provide backup, archive, recovery, and media management functions.
IBM Business Graphics Utility for System i commands
The IBM Business Graphics Utility for System i commands
create, delete, and display business charts. You can also start the
Business Graphics Utility (BGU).
IBM CICS Transaction Server for i commands
The IBM CICS Transaction Server for i commands add, change,
create, delete, display, and work with the CICS (Customer Information
Control System) tables. You can also remove table entries and start
a CICS control region and a CICS user shell.
IBM Communications Utilities for System i commands
The IBM Communications Utilities for System i commands
provide support for the VM/MVS bridge and the remote job entry (RJE)
function.
IBM Content Manager OnDemand for i commands
The IBM Content Manager OnDemand for i commands provide
support for online document capture, storage, and retrieval of computer
output.
IBM DB2 DataPropagator for iSeries, V8.1 commands
The IBM DB2 DataPropagator for iSeries, V8.1 commands add
and remove DataPropagator registrations and subscriptions, grant and
revoke DataPropagator authority, and start the DataPropagator for
iSeries apply and capture processes.
IBM DB2 Query Manager and SQL Development Kit for i commands
The IBM DB2 Query Manager and SQL Development Kit for i
commands enable you to run the Structured Query Language (SQL) precompiler
for RPG, COBOL, C, and C++ programs, convert SQL C++ source, and start
the Universal Database (UDB) query manager or an interactive SQL session.
IBM Developer Kit for Java commands
The IBM Developer Kit for Java commands run a Java program
associated with a Java class.
IBM HTTP Server for i commands
The IBM HTTP Server for i commands provide support for
configuring Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) server, changing HTTP
attributes, and starting or ending an internet crawler session to
find information on remote Web sites.
IBM Infoprint Server for iSeries commands
The IBM Infoprint Server for iSeries commands create Portable
Document Format (PDF) maps, display PDF map entries, start the Infoprint
Server font downloader server job, and start the transform manager
server job.
IBM i commands
The IBM i commands provide support for all of the features
of IBM i.
IBM i Access for Web commands
The IBM i Access for Web commands configure, end, remove,
and start the IBM i Access for Web functions.
IBM Managed System Services for i commands
The IBM Managed System Services for i commands enable objects
and program temporary fixes (PTFs) to be sent or retrieved, PTFs to
be applied, programs to be run, and the central site system to control
an initial program load (IPL) of the system.
IBM Performance Tools for i commands
The IBM Performance Tools for i commands display, report,
graph, and analyze performance data by using the Performance Tools.
IBM PowerHA for i commands
The IBM PowerHA for i commands are used to add, change,
and delete domain entries, or display and end ASP sessions.
IBM Query for i commands
The IBM Query for i commands include the Work with Query
(WRKQRY) command, which shows the Work with Queries display.
IBM Rational Development Studio for i commands
The IBM Rational Development Studio for i commands provide
support for System i compilers, which include RPG, COBOL, C, and C++.
These commands also provide support for application developer utilities,
which include Programming Development Manager (PDM) and Source Entry
Utility (SEU).
IBM System Manager for i commands
The IBM System Manager for i commands enable a system in
a network to work as a service provider for other systems in the network
using System Manager.
IBM TCP/IP Connectivity Utilities for i commands
The IBM TCP/IP Connectivity Utilities for i commands provide
support for configuring and starting or ending industry-standard TCP/IP
applications such as FTP, TELNET, and SMTP.

Parent topic: Control language