Replacement and Comparison Rules

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Compiler-Directing Statements > COPY Statement > COPY Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Compiler-Directing Statements > COPY Statement

Replacement and Comparison Rules
Arithmetic and logical operators that do not occur as part of an identifier
are considered text words and may be replaced only through the pseudo-text
option.
When a figurative constant is operand-1, it will match only if it appears
exactly as it is specified. For example, if ALL "AB" is specified in
the library text, then "ABAB" is not considered a match; only ALL "AB" is considered a match.
Operand-2 is copied in the place of operand-1 unless pseudo-text-2 positioning
rules cause the replacement to be inserted in a different area.
Any separator comma, semicolon, and/or space preceding the leftmost word
in the library text is copied into the source program. Beginning with the
leftmost library text word and the first operand-1 specified in the REPLACING
option, the entire REPLACING operand that precedes the keyword BY is compared
to an equivalent number of contiguous library text words.
Operand-1 matches the library text if, and only if, the ordered sequence
of text words in operand-1 is equal, character for character, to the ordered
sequence of library words. For matching purposes, each occurrence of a comma
or semicolon separator and each sequence of one or more space separators is
considered to be a single space.
If no match occurs, the comparison is repeated with each successive operand-1,
if specified, until either a match is found or there are no further REPLACING
operands.
Whenever a match occurs between operand-1 and the library text, the associated
operand-2 is copied into the source program.
When all operands have been compared and no match is found, the leftmost
library text word is copied into the source program.
The next successive uncopied library text word is then considered to be
the leftmost text word, and the comparison process is repeated, beginning
with the first operand-1. The process continues until the rightmost library
text word has been compared.
Comment lines or blank lines occurring in the library text and in pseudo-text-1
are ignored for purposes of matching; and the sequence of text words in the
library text and in pseudo-text-1 is determined by the rules for reference
format. Comment lines or blank lines appearing in pseudo-text-2 are copied
into the resultant program unchanged whenever pseudo-text-2 is placed into
the source program as a result of text replacement. Comment lines or blank
lines appearing in library text are copied into the resultant source program
unchanged with the following exception: a comment line or blank line in library
text is not copied if that comment line or blank line appears within the sequence
of text words that match pseudo-text-1.
Text words, after replacement, are placed in the source program according
to Standard COBOL format rules. For more information about the reference format
areas, refer to Reference Format.
Each text word copied unaltered from
the library will start in the same area of the line in the resultant program
as it was within the library. As an exception to this rule, however, if a
text word that is being copied unaltered starts in Area A within the library,
and follows another text word in Area A which is being replaced by text of
a greater length, the unaltered text word will begin in Area B if it will
no longer fit in Area A.

Each text word in pseudo-text-2 that is to
be placed in the resultant program begins in the same area of the resultant
program as it appeared in pseudo-text-2. Each identifier-2, literal-2, and
word-2 that is to be placed in the resultant program begins in the same area
of the resultant program as the library text that is being replaced.

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension COPY REPLACING does not affect the EJECT, SKIP1/2/3,
or TITLE compiler-directing statements. End of IBM Extension End of IBM Extension

Parent topic: COPY Statement