Initialize Distribution Queue (INZDSTQ)

Initialize Distribution Queue (INZDSTQ)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Initialize Distribution Queue (INZDSTQ) command resets the status of a distribution queue and the entries on the queue. It also optionally clears all distributions on the queue. This command applies to both the normal and high priority sections of the specified queue.

Attention: Initializing a distribution queue can result in the loss or duplication of distributions in the network, depending on the status of the distributions in transit at the time this command is run.

Initializing a distribution queue includes the following:

- If a SNADS (Systems Network Architecture (SNA) distribution services) sender job is active for the queue, the job is ended. This job cancelation takes effect immediately. Distribution queues being sent are interrupted.

- If the queue type is a SystemView distribution services (SVDS) queue type and a receiver job is active for this connection, the job is ended. This job cancelation takes effect immediately. All partially received distributions are discarded.

- If the distribution queue is to be cleared, all distributions on the queue are deleted as specified on the Clear queue entries prompt (CLEAR parameter).

- If the queue is not cleared, the distributions on the queue that do not have "Held" status are set to "Ready." Distributions with a status of "Held" remain held.

- The queue status is set to "Ready" unless the queue is in the "Held" status.

- If the QSNADS system is active, a SNADS sender job is submitted for the queue following the same rules used to start the QSNADS subsystem.

Distribution queue names are translated to the graphic character set and code page 930 500, using the job's coded character set identifier (CCSID).

Restrictions:

- This command is shipped with public *EXCLUDE authority, and the QPGMR and QSYSOPR user profiles have private authorities to use the command.

- Messages that report errors about distribution queues may display or print different characters than you entered for the distribution queue name because of internal system transformations. Similarly (depending on the language used for the work station), the internal value for a distribution queue name may differ from the characters shown for the Work with Distribution Queue (WRKDSTQ) command. An error may be reported if the character-string value specified for the Distribution queue prompt (DSTQ parameter) does not match the rules for an internal distribution queue value or if it does not match the internal value for any defined distribution queue (ignoring case differences).

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
DSTQ | Distribution queue | Character value | Required, Positional 1
CLEAR | Clear queue entries | *NO, *YES, *PURGE | Optional

Top

Distribution queue (DSTQ)

Specifies the name of the distribution queue to initialize. The queue must be previously configured using the Configure Distribution Services (CFGDSTSRV) or the Add Distribution Queue (ADDDSTQ) command.

This is a required parameter.

Top

Clear queue entries (CLEAR)

Specifies whether distributions on the queue are deleted.

Attention: Using the *PURGE value results in the loss of distributions with no trace.

The possible values are:

*NO
Distributions on the queue are not deleted.

*YES
Distributions on the queue are deleted. Each deleted distribution is logged and, if the distribution originator requested notification, a notification is sent to the originator or to the report destination specified in the distribution.

Note: System Network Architecture distribution services (SNADS) status distributions and distribution reports are used to report information about a distribution back to the originator. Status report distributions never result in another status report distribution. If a status report distribution is deleted, no notification is sent.

*PURGE
Distributions on the queue are deleted. Deleted distributions are not logged and no notification is sent to the originator or to the report destination specified in the distribution.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Initializing a Distribution Queue

INZDSTQ DSTQ('SYSTEMA APPN')

Connection information is about to be changed for system 'SYSTEMA APPN' by a central site administrator. This command initializes the queue to avoid error conditions that can be encountered by the Change Distribution Queue (CHGDSTQ) command. Distributions on the queue are not deleted.

Example 2: Initializing and Clearing a Distribution Queue

INZDSTQ DSTQ('ERRORQ') CLEAR(*YES)

This command clears the distribution queue ERRORQ that is being used as a repository for distributions that would have resulted in routing errors. Distributions that are deleted are logged, and the originators of the distributions are notified.

Example 3: Initializing and Purging a Distribution Queue

INZDSTQ DSTQ('TESTQ') CLEAR(*PURGE)

This command clears the distribution queue TESTQ that is being used for testing a new batch application. Distributions are deleted but not logged, and the originators are not notified.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF8802
Distribution queue &1 was not found.

CPF8807
Error occurred while using QSNADS journal.

CPF8809
Errors detected on SNADS internal queues.

CPF8812
Error occurred while processing distribution queues.

CPF8849
Queue &1 in use by another distribution services function.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

CPF9846
Error while processing file &1 in library &2.

Top