Editing Numeric Fields

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Definitions

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions

Editing Numeric Fields

Editing provides
a means of:

Punctuating numeric fields, including the printing of currency
symbols, commas, periods, minus sign, and floating minus

Moving a field sign from the rightmost digit to the end of the
field

Blanking zero fields

Managing spacing in arrays

Editing numeric values containing dates

Floating a currency symbol

Filling a print field with asterisks

This chapter applies only to non-float numeric fields. To output
float fields in the external display representation, specify blank
in position 52 of the output specification. To obtain the external
display representation of a float value in calculations, use the %EDITFLT
built-in function.

A field can be edited by edit codes, or edit words. You can print
fields in edited format using output specifications or you can obtain
the edited value of the field in calulation specifications using the
built-in functions %EDITC (edit code) and %EDITW (edit word).

When you print fields that are not edited, the fields are printed
as follows:

Float fields are printed in the external display representation.

Other numeric fields are printed in zoned numeric representation.

The following examples show why you may want to edit numeric
output fields.

Type of Field

Field in the Computer

Printing of Unedited Field

Printing of Edited Field

Alphanumeric
 
Numeric
(positive)
 
Numeric
(negative)

JOHN T SMITH
 
0047652
 
 
004765K

JOHN T SMITH
 
0047652
 
 
004765K

JOHN T SMITH
 
  47652
 
 
  47652-

The unedited alphanumeric field and the unedited positive numeric
field are easy to read when printed, but the unedited negative numeric
field is confusing because it contains a K, which is not numeric.
The K is a combination of the digit 2 and the negative sign for the
field. They are combined so that one of the positions of the field
does not have to be set aside for the sign. The combination is convenient
for storing the field in the computer, but it makes the output hard
to read. Therefore, to improve the readability of the printed output,
numeric fields should be edited before they are printed.

Edit Codes

Edit Words

Editing Externally Described Files

Parent topic: Definitions