Reclaim Activation Group (RCLACTGRP)

Reclaim Activation Group (RCLACTGRP)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Reclaim Activation Group (RCLACTGRP) command deletes a specified activation group and frees the resources that are scoped to it. It does not reclaim resources scoped to the job or scoped to the default activation group. This command is normally used only in the controlling program of the application.

An activation group is eligible to be reclaimed if it meets the following criteria:

- The activation group is not the default activation group.
The default activation group cannot be reclaimed.

- The activation group is not active.
An activation group cannot be reclaimed if there are programs or procedures running within the activation group.

- The activation group is not one of the debug activation groups.
When the job is in debug mode, the activation groups in use do not appear as active on the Call Stack or Display Activation Group displays.

- The activation group is not a shared activation group.
A shared activation group cannot be reclaimed because it may be in use by another job.

When an activation group is reclaimed, all resources within the scope of the activation group are reclaimed. Resources within the scope of the activation group include static storage for programs in the activation group, open files, user interface manager (UIM) application resources, Common Programming Interface (CPI) Communications conversations, hierarchical file systems (HFS) resources, user-defined communications sessions, and pending changes for the commitment definition.

A close option can be specified on this command, and is used when closing mixed, communications, binary synchronous (BSC), and intersystem communications function (ICF) files. If an activation group level commitment definition has been started for the activation group, and it has pending committable changes, the close option also indicates whether the system implicitly commits or rolls back the pending changes before ending the commitment definition. When specifying a close option of *NORMAL, and there are no errors when closing files using the activation group level commitment definition, a commit is performed. Otherwise, a rollback is performed. See the Recovering your system book, SC41-5304 book for information on how the system performs the rollback operation under commitment control.

An activation group should only be reclaimed if it will never be needed again within the same job. Otherwise, errors and unpredictable results may occur if other programs later attempt to access the resources that were reclaimed. Therefore, this command should normally only be used in the controlling program of an application. Specifying ACTGRP(*ELIGIBLE) requires full knowledge of the job environment. Otherwise, unpredicable results can occur.

For more information on the appropriate use of this command, see the IBM System Manager for i.

Restrictions:

- This command is not threadsafe. This command fails in a job that allows multiple threads.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
ACTGRP | Activation group | Name, *ELIGIBLE | Required, Positional 1
OPTION | Close option | *NORMAL, *ABNORMAL | Optional, Positional 2

Top

Activation group (ACTGRP)

Specifies the activation group to be reclaimed.

*ELIGIBLE
All eligible activation groups within the job are deleted.

activation-group-name
Specify the activation group to be reclaimed. The activation group can only be reclaimed if it has no active calls. If active calls exist, a message is displayed informing the user that the request failed. If the activation group is not found, a message is displayed informing the user that the request failed because the activation group was not found.

Top

Close option (OPTION)

Specifies whether to commit or roll back pending changes for an activation group level commitment definition, and whether a normal or abnormal close notification is sent to the attached host system when mixed, communications, BSC, and ICF files are closed. This parameter is ignored for all other files and objects within the scope of the activation group.

*NORMAL
The changes pending for an activation group level commitment definition are committed (if there are no errors when closing files using the commitment definition), and a normal close notification is sent to the attached host system when mixed, communications, BSC, and ICF files are closed.

*ABNORMAL
The changes pending for an activation group level commitment definition are rolled back and an abnormal close notification is sent to the attached host system when mixed, communications, BSC, and ICF files are closed.

Top

Examples

RCLACTGRP ACTGRP(MYGROUP)

This command reclaims the activation group MYGROUP.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF1653
Activation group &1 not found.

CPF1654
Activation group &1 cannot be deleted.

CPF180C
Function &1 not allowed.

CPF1892
Function &1 not allowed.

Top