Delete Cluster Admin Domain (DLTCAD)

Delete Cluster Admin Domain (DLTCAD)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: Yes | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Delete Cluster Admin Domain (DLTCAD) command deletes the cluster resource group associated with a cluster administrative domain from all cluster nodes in the administrative domain. Cluster Resource Services must be active to use this command. The cluster resource group object is marked for deletion and is deleted on each active cluster node. The cluster resource group object will be deleted on other nodes in the cluster when they become active.

The Delete Cluster Resource Group (DLTCRG) command can be used to delete the cluster resource group object associated with a cluster administrative domain on a system that does not have Cluster Resource Services active.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority on all nodes in the recovery domain to run this command.

- Cluster Resource Services must be active on the node processing the request.

- The status of the cluster resource group being deleted must not be active.

- The cluster resource group CRG is owned by the QCLUSTER user profile. To use the cluster resource group commands with the cluster administrative domain you will need to be authorized to the cluster resource group and to the QCLUSTER user profile.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
ADMDMN | Cluster administrative domain | Name, * | Required, Positional 1
CLUSTER | Cluster | Name, * | Optional

Top

Cluster administrative domain (ADMDMN)

Specifies the cluster administrative domain that is to be deleted.

This is a required parameter.

*
The name of the cluster administrative domain that local cluster node is part of is used.

name
Specify the name of the cluster administrative domain.

Top

Cluster (CLUSTER)

Specifies the name of the cluster.

*
The cluster that has been configured on this system is used.

name
Specify the name of the cluster.

Top

Examples for DLTCAD

DLTCAD ADMDMN(MYDOMAIN)

This command deletes the cluster administrative domain named MYDOMAIN.

Top

Error messages for DLTCAD

*ESCAPE Messages

HAE0004
Cluster administrative domain &1 not deleted.

Top