LPI (Lines Per Inch) keyword in printer files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

LPI (Lines Per Inch) keyword in printer files

You can use this record-level keyword
to change lines per inch within a file.

If you do not specify LPI for a record, the LPI value is set from
the LPI value on the CRTPRTF, CHGPRTF, or OVRPRTF command.
The format
of the keyword is: LPI( 4 | 6 | 8 | 9 | 12)
4,
6, 8, 9, and 12 are the valid parameter values.
When you use multiple
LPI per page, all skip-to line numbers (on SKIPB, SKIPA) become absolute positions
(fixed locations on the paper). For example, if the page length is 66 lines
and the file LPI value is 6, then the forms are 11.0 inches long. If you indicate
that it should skip to line number 48, it skips down 8 inches on the page
and prints. If, in this example, you print 24 lines at 6 LPI (4 inches) and
then print 24 lines at 8 LPI (3 inches), the 48th line is 7 inches down on
the page.
In both of these examples, 48 lines are processed.
If a SKIPB(55) keyword is used, the first example skips to line 55, based
on 6 LPI (55/6 inch down the page). In the second example, a page eject occurs
and printing starts on line 55, based on 8 LPI (55/8 inch down the page).
A page eject occurs in the second example because 7 inches was printed down
on the page. A skip to line 55, based on 8 LPI, is less than 7 inches. Therefore,
to print on line 55, the current page must be ejected.
Data is processed
in a sequential fashion based on location, not on line number. If you use
a skip-to to go to a line number that is a location above the current location
(even though the line number is greater than the current line number), a page
eject occurs. Printing continues on the next page.
When using multiple
LPI per page, all spacing (SPACEA and SPACEB) is done relative to the current
position. For example, if you print 24 lines at 6 LPI (4 inches), and then
print 24 lines at 8 LPI (3 inches), the 48th line is 7 inches down on the
page. If you then do a SPACEA(4) (LPI is still 8 LPI), you will space down
1/2 inch from the last line and be a total of 7.5 inches down on the page.
It is recommended that you use SPACEA and SPACEB keywords when you use the
LPI keyword.
The LPI, SKIP, and SPACE keywords are processed in the
following order: LPI
SKIPB
SPACEB
SPACEA
SKIPA

Thus, the SPACE and SKIP keywords use the new LPI value.
The LPI for the next and the following lines print at the LPI value specified
on the LPI parameter. This parameter value remains in effect until the next
record format processes. At the end of the record format, the LPI value changes
back to the file level.
The LPI takes effect only on a line boundary.
If you change the LPI within a line, the new value takes effect at the end
of the line and no diagnostic appears.
You cannot specify this keyword
on the same record format with BLKFOLD, CPI, or DFNCHR. If you use any of
these keywords with LPI, the file is not created.
This keyword is valid
for IPDS printers
and printers capable of Advanced Function Printing support.
A warning message is issued when you specify the LPI keyword in a file created
with DEVTYPE(*SCS).
The overflow line number (OVRFLW parameter on the
CRTPRTF command) is not converted to an absolute position (in inches) based
on the file-level LPI value. The overflow condition signals when the overflow
position (in inches) is reached.
Example: Page length = 66, LPI = 6,
OVRFLW = 60 (10 inches).

Print 36 lines at 6 LPI (6 inches).

Print 16 lines at 4 LPI (4 inches).

After line 52 processes, the overflow condition is signaled.
Option
indicators are not valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the LPI keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A R RECORD1 LPI(6)
A SPACEB(6)
ARegardless of the LPI you specify on the CRTPRTF, CHGPRTF,
or OVRPRTF command, the printer device spaces down one inch before it prints
the next line.