CALL

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

CALL
The CALL statement calls a procedure.
InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared.
AuthorizationThe privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
If the procedure is an SQL procedure: The EXECUTE privilege on the procedure, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the SQL
procedure

If the procedure is a Java™ external
procedure: Read authority (*R) to the integrated file system file that contains
the Java class.
Read and execute authority (*RX) to all directories that must
be accessed in order to find the integrated file system file.

If the procedure is a REXX external procedure: The system authorities *OBJOPR, *READ, and *EXECUTE on the source
file associated with the procedure,
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the source
file, and
The system authority *USE to the CL command,

If the procedure is an external procedure, but not a REXX or Java external procedure: The system authority *EXECUTE on the program or service program
associated with the procedure, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the program
or service program associated with the procedure

Database administrator authority

If a global variable is referenced as an IN or
INOUT parameter, the privileges held by the authorization ID for the
statement must include at least one of the following:The READ privilege on the global variable.
Database administrator authority

If a global variable is referenced as an OUT
or INOUT parameter, the privileges held by the authorization ID for
the statement must include at least one of the following:The WRITE privilege on the global variable.
Database administrator authority

For information on the system authorities corresponding
to SQL privileges, see Corresponding
System Authorities When Checking Privileges to a Function or Procedure.
SyntaxCALLprocedure-namevariableargument-listSQL-descriptorsUSING DESCRIPTORdescriptor-nameargument-list(,parameter-name => expressionDEFAULTNULL)SQL-descriptorsINTOSQLDESCRIPTORLOCALGLOBALSQL-descriptor-nameUSINGSQL1DESCRIPTORLOCALGLOBALSQL-descriptor-name
Descriptionprocedure-name or variable
Identifies the procedure to
call by the specified procedure-name or
the procedure name contained in the variable.
The identified procedure must exist at the current server. If
a variable is specified:
It must be a character-string variable or Unicode graphic-string.
It cannot be a global variable.
It must not be followed by an indicator variable.
The procedure name that is contained within the variable must
be left-justified and must be padded on the right with blanks if its
length is less than that of the variable.
The name of the procedure must be in uppercase unless the procedure
name is a delimited name.

If the procedure name is unqualified, it is implicitly qualified
based on the path and number of parameters. For more information see  Qualification of unqualified object names.
If the procedure-name identifies
a procedure that was defined by a DECLARE PROCEDURE statement, and
the current server is a DB2® for
i product,
then:
The DECLARE PROCEDURE statement determines the name of the external
program, language, and calling convention.
The attributes of the parameters of the procedure are defined
by the DECLARE PROCEDURE statement.

If there is no DECLARE PROCEDURE and the procedure
name identifies a procedure that was defined by a CREATE PROCEDURE
statement, and the current server is DB2 for
i, then:
The CREATE PROCEDURE statement determines the name of the external
program, language, and calling convention.
The attributes of the parameters of the procedure are defined
by the CREATE PROCEDURE statement.

Otherwise:
The current server determines the name of the external program,
language, and calling convention.
If the current server is DB2 for
i: The external program name is assumed to be the same as the external
procedure name.
If the program attribute information associated with the program
identifies a recognizable language, then that language is used. Otherwise,
the language is assumed to be C.
The calling convention is assumed to be GENERAL.

The application requester assumes all parameters that are variables
or parameter markers are INOUT. All parameters that are not variables
are assumed to be IN.
The actual attributes of the parameters are determined by the
current server. If the current server is a DB2 for
i, the attributes of
the parameters will be the same as the attributes of the arguments
specified on the CALL statement. 1

argument-list
Identifies
a list of values to be passed as parameters to the procedure. The nth unnamed argument corresponds to the nth
parameter in the procedure. Each parameter defined (using a CREATE
PROCEDURE or DECLARE PROCEDURE statement) as OUT must be specified
as a variable. A default cannot be specified for an
OUT parameter. If a default is used for an INOUT parameter, then the
default expression is used to initialize the parameter for input to
the procedure. No value is returned for this parameter when the procedure
exits.
When a procedure is called, arguments
must be specified for all parameters that are not defined to have
a default value. When an argument is assigned to a parameter using
the named syntax, then all the arguments that follow it must also
be assigned using the named syntax.
Any references
to date, time, or timestamp special register values in the argument
list will use one clock reading for any default expressions and a
separate clock reading for any references in the explicit arguments.
If any argument is an array, all other arguments must
be literals, special registers, NULL, or DEFAULT.
The application
requester assumes all parameters that are variables are INOUT parameters
except for Java, where it is
assumed all parameters that are variables are IN unless the mode is
explicitly specified in the variable reference. All parameters that
are not variables are assumed to be input parameters. The actual attributes
of the parameters are determined by the current server.
parameter-name
Name of the parameter to which the argument value is assigned.
The name must match a parameter name defined for the procedure. Named
arguments correspond to the same named parameter regardless of the
order in which they are specified in the argument list. When an argument
is assigned to a parameter by name, all the arguments that follow
it must also be assigned by name.
A named argument must be specified only one time (implicitly or
explicitly).
Named arguments are only allowed on a call to a procedure that
was defined using a CREATE PROCEDURE statement.
expression
An expression of
the type described in Expressions, that
does not include an aggregate function or column name. If extended
indicator variables are enabled, the extended indicator variable values
of DEFAULT and UNASSIGNED must not be used for that expression.
DEFAULT
Specifies
the default as defined in the CREATE PROCEDURE statement is used as
an argument to the procedure. If no default is defined for the parameter,
the NULL value is used.
NULL
Specifies
a null value as an argument to the procedure.

SQL-descriptors
If SQL descriptors are specified on CALL, a procedure that has
IN and INOUT parameters requires an SQL descriptor to be specified
in the USING clause; and a procedure that has OUT or INOUT parameters
requires an SQL descriptor to be specified in the INTO clause. If
all the parameters of the procedure are INOUT parameters, the same
descriptor can be used for both clauses. For more information, see Multiple SQL descriptors on CALL. INTO
Identifies
an SQL descriptor which contains valid descriptions of the output
variables to be used with the CALL statement. Before the CALL statement
is executed, a descriptor must be allocated using the ALLOCATE DESCRIPTOR
statement. The COUNT field in the descriptor header must be set to
reflect the number of OUT and INOUT parameters for the procedure.
The item information, including TYPE, and where applicable, DATETIME_INTERVAL_CODE,
LENGTH, DB2_CCSID, PRECISION, and SCALE, must be set for the variables
that are used when processing the statement. LOCAL
Specifies the scope of the name of the descriptor to be local
to program invocation. The information is returned from the descriptor
known in this local scope.
GLOBAL
Specifies the scope of the name of the descriptor to be global
to the SQL session. The information is returned from the descriptor
known to any program that executes using the same database connection.
SQL-descriptor-name
Names the SQL descriptor. The name must identify a descriptor
that already exists with the specified scope. See GET DESCRIPTOR for an explanation of the information
that is placed in the SQL descriptor.

USING
Identifies an SQL descriptor which contains valid descriptions
of the input variables to be used with the CALL statement. Before
the CALL statement is executed, a descriptor must be allocated using
the ALLOCATE DESCRIPTOR statement. The COUNT field in the descriptor
header must be set to reflect the number of IN and INOUT parameters
for the procedure. The item information, including TYPE, and where
applicable, DATETIME_INTERVAL_CODE, LENGTH, DB2_CCSID, PRECISION,
and SCALE, must be set for the variables that are used when processing
the statement. The DATA item and when nulls are used, the INDICATOR
item, must be set for the input variables. LOCAL
Specifies the scope of the name of the descriptor to be local
to program invocation.
GLOBAL
Specifies the scope of the name of the descriptor to be global
to the SQL session.
SQL-descriptor-name
Names the SQL descriptor. The name must identify a descriptor
that already exists with the specified scope. See SET DESCRIPTOR for an explanation of the information
in the SQL descriptor.

USING DESCRIPTOR descriptor-name
Identifies an SQLDA that must
contain a valid description of variables. Before the CALL statement
is processed, you must set the following fields in the SQLDA. (The
rules for REXX are
different. For more information, see the Embedded SQL Programming topic
collection.)SQLN to indicate the number of SQLVAR occurrences provided in
the SQLDA
SQLDABC to indicate the number of bytes of storage allocated for
the SQLDA
SQLD to indicate the number of variables used in the SQLDA when
processing the statement
SQLVAR occurrences to indicate the attributes of the variables.

The SQLDA must have enough storage to contain all SQLVAR occurrences.
Therefore, the value in SQLDABC must be greater than or equal to
16 + SQLN*(80), where 80 is the length of an SQLVAR occurrence. If
LOBs or distinct types are specified, there must be two SQLVAR entries
for each parameter marker and SQLN must be set to two times the number
of parameter markers.
SQLD must be set to a value greater than
or equal to zero and less than or equal to SQLN. It must be the same
as the number of parameters in the CALL statement. The nth
variable described by the SQLDA corresponds to the nth parameter
marker in the prepared statement. (For a description of an SQLDA,
see SQLDA (SQL descriptor area).)
Note that RPG/400® does not provide the
function for setting pointers. Because the SQLDA uses pointers to
locate the appropriate variables, you have to set these pointers outside
your RPG/400 application.
The
USING DESCRIPTOR clause is not supported for a CALL statement within
a Java program.

NotesParameter
assignments: When the CALL statement is executed, the value of
each of its parameters is assigned (using storage assignment rules)
to the corresponding parameter of the procedure. A
parameter value that is defined to have a default value can be omitted
from the argument list when invoking the procedure. Control is
passed to the procedure according to the calling conventions of the
host language. When execution of the procedure is complete, the value
of each parameter of the procedure is assigned (using storage
assignment rules for SQL parameters, otherwise using retrieval
assignment rules) to the corresponding parameter of the CALL statement
defined as OUT or INOUT. For details on the assignment rules, see Assignments and comparisons.
Global variables: A
global variable may be specified and will be modified if used as a
parameter that is INOUT or OUT.
Procedure signatures: A procedure is
identified by its schema, a procedure name, and the number of parameters.
This is called a procedure signature, which must be unique within
the database. There can be more than one procedure with the same name
in a schema, provided that the number of parameters is different for
each procedure.
SQL path: A procedure can be invoked
by referring to a qualified name (schema and procedure name), followed
by an optional list of arguments enclosed by parentheses. A procedure
can also be invoked without the schema name, resulting in a choice
of possible procedures in different schemas with the same number of
parameters. In this case, the SQL path is used to assist in procedure
resolution.
Procedure resolution: For details of
how procedure resolution is performed, see Procedure resolution .
Cursors and prepared statements in procedures: All
cursors opened in the called procedure that are not result set cursors
are closed, and all statements prepared in the called procedure are
destroyed when the procedure ends. CLOSQLCSR(*ENDACTGRP) can be used
to keep cursors open when the procedure ends. For more information,
see SET OPTION.
Result sets from procedures: There
are three ways to return result sets from a procedure:
If a SET RESULT SETS statement is executed in the
procedure, the last SET RESULT SETS statement executed in the procedure
identifies the result sets. The result sets are returned in the order
specified on the SET RESULT SETS statement.
If a SET RESULT SETS statement is not executed in the procedure,
If no cursors have specified a WITH RETURN clause, each cursor
that the procedure opens and leaves open when it returns identifies
a result set. The result sets are returned in the order in which the
cursors are opened.
If any cursors have specified a WITH RETURN clause, each cursor
that is defined with the WITH RETURN clause that the procedure opens
and leaves open when it returns identifies a result set. The result
sets are returned in the order in which the cursors are opened.

When a result set is returned using an open cursor, the
rows are returned starting with the current cursor position.
If a cursor result set references an SQL array type, an
error will be returned if the array reference would cause incorrect
results when processing the result set.
Locks in procedures: All locks that have been acquired
in the called procedure are retained until the end of the unit of
work.
Errors from procedures: A procedure can return
errors (or warnings) using the SQLSTATE like other SQL statements.
Applications should be aware of the possible SQLSTATEs that can be
expected when invoking a procedure. The possible SQLSTATEs depend
on how the procedure is coded. Procedures may also return SQLSTATEs
such as those that begin with '38' or '39' if the database manager
encounters problems executing the procedure. Applications should therefore
be prepared to handle any error SQLSTATE that may result from issuing
a CALL statement.
Nesting CALL statements: A program that is executing
as a procedure, a user-defined function, or a trigger can issue a
CALL statement. When a procedure, user-defined function, or trigger
calls a procedure, user-defined function, or trigger, the call is
considered to be nested. There is no limit on how many levels procedures
and functions can be nested, but triggers can only be nested up to
200 levels deep.
If a procedure returns any query result sets, the result
sets are returned to the caller of the procedure. If the SQL CALL
statement is nested, the result sets are visible only to the program
that is at the previous nesting level. For example, if a client program
calls procedure PROCA, which in turn calls procedure PROCB. Only PROCA
can access any result sets that PROCB returns; the client program
has no access to the query result sets.
When an SQL or an external procedure is called, an attribute
is set for SQL data-access that was defined when the procedure was
created. The possible values for the attribute are:
NONE
CONTAINS
READS
MODIFIES

If a second procedure is invoked within the execution
of the current procedure, an error is issued if:
The invoked procedure possibly contains SQL and the invoking procedure
does not allow SQL
The invoked procedure reads SQL data and the invoking procedure
does not allow reading SQL data
The invoked procedure modifies SQL data and the invoking procedure
does not allow modifying SQL data

REXX procedures: If
the external procedure to be called is a REXX procedure, then the procedure
must be declared using the CREATE PROCEDURE or DECLARE PROCEDURE statement.
Variables cannot be used in the CALL statement within
a REXX procedure.
Instead, the CALL must be the object of a PREPARE and EXECUTE using
parameter markers.
Multiple SQL descriptors on CALL: If
SQL descriptors are specified on CALL and a procedure has IN or INOUT
parameters and OUT or INOUT parameters, two descriptors must be specified.
The number of variables that must be allocated in the SQL descriptors
depends on how the SQL descriptor attributes are set and the number
of each type of parameter.
If the input SQL descriptor attributes were set using DESCRIBE
INPUT and the output SQL descriptor attributes were set using DESCRIBE
(OUTPUT), the SQL descriptors will have attributes that match the
actual procedure definition at the current server prior to calling
the procedure. In this case, the output SQL descriptor will contain
one variable for each OUT and INOUT parameter. Likewise, the input
SQL descriptor will contain one variable for each IN and INOUT parameter. This
is the recommended technique for specifying multiple SQL descriptors
on a CALL statement.

Otherwise, the actual procedure definition at the current server
is unknown prior to calling the procedure, so each parameter is assumed
to be INOUT at the time the procedure is called. This means that both
SQL descriptors must be specified, and since each parameter is assumed
to be INOUT, they must have the same number of variables and the TYPE,
DATETIME_INTERVAL_CODE, LENGTH, DB2_CCSID, PRECISION, and SCALE of
each variable in the output SQL descriptor must be exactly the same
as the corresponding variable in the input SQL descriptor. Otherwise,
an error is returned.

If multiple SQL descriptors are specified, the DATA or
INDICATOR items associated with any INOUT parameters in the input
SQL descriptor may also be modified when the procedure is called.
Thus, a SET DESCRIPTOR may be necessary to reset the DATA and INDICATOR
items for such an input SQL descriptor prior to its use in another
SQL statement.
ExamplesExample 1: Call procedure
PGM1 and pass two parameters.
CALL PGM1 (:hv1,:hv2)

Example 2: In C, invoke a procedure called SALARY_PROC
using the SQLDA named INOUT_SQLDA.
struct sqlda *INOUT_SQLDA;

/* Setup code for SQLDA variables goes here */

CALL SALARY_PROC USING DESCRIPTOR :*INOUT_SQLDA;

Example 3: A Java procedure
is defined in the database using the following statement:
CREATE PROCEDURE PARTS_ON_HAND (IN PARTNUM INTEGER,
OUT COST DECIMAL(7,2),
OUT QUANTITY INTEGER)
LANGUAGE JAVA PARAMETER STYLE JAVA
EXTERNAL NAME 'parts!onhand';
A Java application calls this procedure on
the connection context 'ctx' using the following code fragment:
...
int variable1;
BigDecimal variable2;
Integer variable3;
...
#sql [ctx] {CALL PARTS_ON_HAND(:IN variable1, :OUT variable2, :OUT variable3)};
...

This application code fragment will invoke the Java method onhand in class parts since
the procedure-name specified on the CALL
statement is found in the database and has the external name 'parts!onhand'.
Example 4: Call procedure PGM2 on
relational database BRANCHRDB2 and pass one parameter.
CALL BRANCHRDB2.SCHEMA3.PGM2 (:hv1)

Example 5: Assume the following procedure
exists. CREATE PROCEDURE update_order(
IN IN_POID BIGINT,
IN IN_CUSTID BIGINT DEFAULT GLOBAL_CUST_ID,
IN NEW_STATUS VARCHAR(10) DEFAULT NULL,
IN NEW_ORDERDATE DATE DEFAULT NULL,
IN NEW_COMMENTS VARCHAR(1000)DEFAULT NULL)...
Also
assume that the global variable GLOBAL_CUST_ID is set to the value
1002. Call the procedure to change the status of order 5000 for customer
1002 to 'Shipped'. Leave the rest of the order data as it is by allowing
the rest of the arguments to default to the null value.CALL update_order (5000, NEW_STATUS => 'Shipped')
The
customer with ID 1001 has called and indicated that they received
their shipment for purchase order 5002 and are satisfied. Update their
order.CALL update_order (5002,
IN_CUSTID => 1001,
NEW_STATUS => 'Received',
NEW_COMMENTS => 'Customer satisfied with the order.')

Parent topic: Statements

1 Note that in the case of decimal
constants, leading zeroes are significant when determining the attributes
of the argument. Normally, leading zeroes are not significant.