ILE C/C++ Programmer's Guide

IBM i programming resources > ILE C/C++ > Programmer's Guide > Part 5. Working with iSeries File Systems and Devices > Chapter 18. Using Externally Described Files in a Program

IBM i programming resources > ILE C/C++ > Programmer's Guide > Part 5. Working with iSeries File Systems and Devices > Chapter 18. Using Externally Described Files in a Program

ILE C/C++ Programmer's Guide
Level Checking to Verify Descriptions

When an ILE C/C++ program that uses externally described files is compiled,
the compiler extracts the record-level and field-level descriptions for the
files referred to in the program and makes those descriptions part of the
compiled program. When you run the program, you can verify that the
descriptions with which the program was compiled are the current
descriptions. This process is referred to as level
checking.
When it creates the associated header file, the server assigns a unique
level identifier for each record format. The following information
determines the level identifier:

Record format name
Field name
Total length of the record format
Number of fields in the record format
Field attributes (for example, length and decimal positions)
Order of the field in the record format

Note:It is possible for files with large record formats (many fields) to have the
same format level identifiers even though their formats may be slightly
different. Problems can occur when copying these files if the record
format names of the from-file and the to-file are the same.

If you change any of the data description specification (DDS) items in the
preceding list, the level identifier changes.
When you create or change files, and you specify that you want level
checking:

The system checks the level identifier to determine whether the
description of the record format you are using was changed since the program
was compiled.
If that information has changed so much that your program cannot process
the file, the system notifies your program of this condition.

If the changes affect a field that your program uses, you must compile the
program again for it to run properly.

C++ users must use the GENCSRC utility for level checking.

C users can use either the GENCSRC utility or the #pragma mapinc
directive for level checking.
Note:For more information on the differences between the GENCSRC utility and the
#pragma mapinc directive, see Appendix A, The GENCSRC Utility and the #pragma mapinc Directive.

If you make changes that do not affect the fields that your program uses,
you can run the program without compiling again by entering an override
command for the file and specifying LVLCHK(*NO). For example, suppose
that you add a field to the end of a record format in a database file, but the
program does not use the new field. You can use the Override with
Database File (OVRDBF) command with LVLCHK(*NO) to enable the program to run
without compiling again.
Note:The Override with Database File (OVRDBF) command can be used with DDM to
override a local database file named in the program with a DDM file.
The DDM file causes the associated remote file to be used by the program
instead of the local database file.

The use of level checking ensures file integrity. It alerts
you to the possibility of unpredictable results.
An alternative to level checking is to display and analyze the file
description to determine if the changes affect your program. You can
use the Display File Field Description (DSPFFD) command to display the
description or, if you have the source entry utility (SEU), you can display
the source file containing the DDS for the file. To display the format
level identifier defined in the file, use the Display File Description (DSPFD)
command.
Note:When you are displaying the level identifier, remember that the record format
identifier is compared, rather than the file identifier.

[ Top of Page | Previous Page | Next Page | Table of Contents ]

(C) Copyright IBM Corporation 1992, 2005. All Rights Reserved.