Adding conditional breakpoints

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging original program model programs > Breakpoints > Breakpoints

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging original program model programs > Breakpoints

Adding conditional breakpoints
To add a conditional breakpoint
to a program that is being debugged, use the Add Breakpoint (ADDBKP) command
to specify the statement and condition.
If the condition is met, the system stops the program processing
at the specified statement.
You may specify a skip value on the ADDBKP command.
A skip value is a number that indicates how many times a statement
should be processed before the system stops the program. For example, to stop
a program at statement 1200 after the statement has been processed 100 times,
enter the following command:
ADDBKP STMT(1200) SKIP(100)
If you specify multiple statements when the SKIP parameter
is specified, each statement has a separate count. The following command
causes your program to stop on statement 150 or 200, but only after the statement
has processed 400 times:
ADDBKP STMT(150 200) SKIP(400)
If statement 150 has processed 400 times but statement 200
has processed only 300 times, then the program does not stop on statement
200.
If a statement has not processed as many times as was specified
on the SKIP parameter, the Display Breakpoint (DSPBKP) command
can be used to show how many times the statement was processed. To reset the
SKIP count for a statement to zero, enter the breakpoint again for that statement.
You
can specify a more general breakpoint condition on the ADDBKP command.
This expression uses a program variable, an operator, and another variable
or constant as the operands. For example, to stop a program at statement
1500 when variable &X is greater than 1000, enter the following command:

ADDBKP STMT(1500) PGMVAR('&X') BKPCOND(*PGMVAR1 *GT 1000)
The BKPCOND parameter requires three values:
In the example, the first value specifies the first variable specified
on the PGMVAR parameter. (To specify the third variable, you would use *PGMVAR3.)
The second value must be an operator.
The third value may be a constant or another variable. A constant may
be a number, character string, or bit string, and must be the same type as
the program variable specified in the first value.

The SKIP and BKPCOND parameters can be used together to specify a
complex breakpoint condition. For example, to stop a program on statement
1000 after the statement has been processed 50 times and only when the character
string &STR is TRUE, enter the following command:
ADDBKP STMT(1000) PGMVAR('&STR') SKIP(50)
BKPCOND(*PGMVAR1 *EQ 'TRUE ')

Parent topic: Breakpoints

Related reference
Operators in expressions

Related information
Add Breakpoint (ADDBKP) command
Display Breakpoint (DSPBKP) command