Save Licensed Program (SAVLICPGM)

Save Licensed Program (SAVLICPGM)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Save Licensed Program (SAVLICPGM) command saves a copy of all of the objects that make up a licensed program. It saves the licensed program in a form that can be restored by the Restore Licensed Program (RSTLICPGM) command.

Restrictions:

- To use this command, you must have *ALLOBJ authority or have specific authority from the security officer.

- A standard labeled tape volume must be on the tape device.

- Some licensed programs can only be saved if the user is enrolled in the system distribution directory. See the publication for each licensed program for a description of this restriction.

- This command does not save code or language objects for the base operating system.

- At most one optical device, one save file, one virtual tape device or one tape media library device can be specified.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
LICPGM | Product | Character value | Required, Positional 1
DEV | Device | Single values: *SAVF
Other values (up to 4 repetitions): Name | Required, Positional 2
OPTION | Optional part to be saved | *BASE, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 01, 02, 03, 04, 05, 06, 07, 08, 09 | Optional
RLS | Release | Character value, *ONLY | Optional
LNG | Language for licensed program | Character value, *PRIMARY, *ALL | Optional
OBJTYPE | Object type | *ALL, *PGM, *LNG | Optional
CHKSIG | Check signature | *SIGNED, *ALL, *NONE | Optional
VOL | Volume identifier | Single values: *MOUNTED
Other values (up to 75 repetitions): Character value | Optional
SEQNBR | Sequence number | 1-16777215, *END | Optional
EXPDATE | File expiration date | Date, *PERM | Optional
ENDOPT | End of media option | *REWIND, *LEAVE, *UNLOAD | Optional
SAVF | Save file | Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Save file | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
TGTRLS | Target release | *CURRENT, *PRV, V7R4M0, V7R5M0, V7R6M0 | Optional
CLEAR | Clear | *NONE, *ALL, *AFTER, *REPLACE | Optional
DTACPR | Data compression | *DEV, *NO, *YES, *LOW, *MEDIUM, *HIGH, *ZLIB | Optional
LICACPRQD | License acceptance required | *NO, *YES | Optional

Top

Product (LICPGM)

Specifies the seven-character identifier of the licensed program that is saved.

This is a required parameter.

Top

Device (DEV)

Specifies the names of the tape or optical devices used for the save licensed program operation. Each device name must already be known on the system by a device description. Use the Work with Device Descriptions (WRKDEVD) command to display the names of the devices available on this system.

This is a required parameter.

*SAVF
The product is saved in the save file specified on the save file (SAVF) parameter.

optical-device-name
Specify the name of the optical device to be used for the save operation.

tape-media-library-device-name
Specify the name of the tape media library device used for the save operation.

tape-device-name
Specify the name of one or more tape devices to use for the save operation. If a virtual tape device is used, it must be the only device specified. If multiple tape devices are used, they must have compatible media formats and their names must be specified in the order in which they are used. Using more than one tape device permits one tape volume to be rewound and unloaded while another tape device processes the next tape volume.

Top

Optional part to be saved (OPTION)

Specifies the optional parts of the licensed program given in the Product prompt (LICPGM parameter) that are saved.

*BASE
Only the base part of the licensed program is to be saved.

number-of-licensed-program-option
Specify the number of the optional part of the listed licensed program that is to be saved.

Top

Release (RLS)

Specifies which version, release, and modification level of the licensed program is saved.

*ONLY
Only one version, release, and modification level is installed for the licensed program option.

release-level
The release-level can be passed as one of the following two formats:
Specify the release-level in VxRyMz format, where Vx is the version number, Ry is the release number, and Mz is the modification level. The variables x and y can be a number from 0 through 9, and the variable z can be a number from 0 through 9 or a letter from A through Z.

Specify the release-level in vvrrmm format, where vv are any numeric characters 00 through 35 representing the version of the product, rr are any numeric characters 00 through 35 representing the release of the product, and mm can be 00 through 09 or 0A through 0Z representing the modification of the product. This format must be used if the version or release of the product is greater than 9.

Top

Language for licensed program (LNG)

Specifies which national language version (NLV) is used for the save operation.

Note: This parameter is ignored when OBJTYPE(*PGM) is specified.

*PRIMARY
The primary language is saved. The primary language is the language of the operating system.

Note: Use GO LICPGM with option 20 to display the primary language of the operating system.

*ALL
All languages are saved.

feature-code
Specify the NLV identifier for the language that is saved for the licensed program.

Top

Object type (OBJTYPE)

Specifies the type of licensed program objects being saved.

*ALL
Program and language objects specified on the LNG parameter are saved.

*PGM
Only the program objects for the licensed program are saved.

*LNG
The objects associated with the NLV identified on the LNG parameter are saved.

Top

Check signature (CHKSIG)

Specifies if the digital signatures of objects being saved with the licensed program are to be checked.

*SIGNED
Objects with digital signatures are checked. Objects that are not digitally signed will not have their signatures verified. Any signed object with a signature that is not valid will be identified in a message in the job log and the save will fail.

*ALL
All objects that can be digitally signed are checked. Any object that can be signed but has no signature will be identified in a message in the job log. The save will not be terminated for unsigned objects. Any signed object with an invalid digital signature will be identified in a message in the job log and the save will fail.

*NONE
Digital signatures of objects will not be checked.

Top

Volume identifier (VOL)

Specifies the volume identifiers of the tape volumes on which the licensed program data is saved. The volumes must be placed in the same order as the volume identifiers are specified on this parameter. Up to 75 entries can be specified.

*MOUNTED
The volume currently placed in the device is used.

For a media library device, the volume to be used is the next cartridge in the the category mounted by the Set Tape Category (SETTAPCGY) command.

Note: This value cannot be specified when using an optical media library device.

volume-identifier
Specify the identifiers of one or more volumes in the order in which they are placed in the device and used to save the licensed program.

Top

Sequence number (SEQNBR)

Specifies, when tape is used, the sequence number to use as the starting point for the save operation.

*END
The save operation begins after the last sequence number on the first tape. If the first tape is full, an error message is issued and the operation ends.

1-16777215
Specify the sequence number of the file to be used for the save operation.

Top

File expiration date (EXPDATE)

Specifies the expiration date of the tape created by the save operation. If a date is specified, the file is protected and cannot be overwritten until the specified expiration date.

*PERM
The file is protected permanently.

date
Specify the date when protection for the file ends.

Top

End of media option (ENDOPT)

Specifies the operation that is automatically done on the tape or optical volume after the save operation ends. If more than one volume is used, this parameter applies only to the last volume used; all other volumes are unloaded when the end of the volume is reached.

Note: This parameter is valid only if a tape or optical device name is specified for the DEV parameter. For optical devices, *UNLOAD is the only special value supported, *REWIND and *LEAVE will be ignored.

*REWIND
The tape is automatically rewound, but not unloaded, after the operation has ended.

*LEAVE
The tape does not rewind or unload after the operation ends. It remains at the current position on the tape drive.

*UNLOAD
The tape is automatically rewound and unloaded after the operation ends. Some optical devices will eject the volume after the operation ends.

Top

Save file (SAVF)

Specifies the existing save file to which the product is saved. The save file must be empty, unless *ALL is specified for the Clear (CLEAR) parameter.

Qualifier 1: Save file

name
Specify the name of the save file.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the library list for the job are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is used to locate the save file. If no current library entry exists in the library list, the QGPL library is used.

name
Specify the name of the library where the save file is located.

Top

Target release (TGTRLS)

Specifies the release level of the operating system on which you intend to restore and use the product. In the examples given for the *CURRENT and *PRV values, and when specifying the target-release value, the format VxRxMx is used to specify the release, where Vx is the version, Rx is the release, and Mx is the modification level. For example, V4R1M0 is version 4 release 1 modification level 0.

Note: This value is limited by the minimum operating system release specified when the product was created.

*CURRENT
The product is to be restored to, and used on, the release of the operating system currently running on your system. The product can also be restored to a system with any subsequent release of the operating system installed.

*PRV
The product is to be restored to the previous release with modification level 0 of the operating system. The product can also be restored to a system with any subsequent release of the operating system installed.

target-release
Specify the release in the format VxRxMx. The product can be restored to a system with the specified release or with any subsequent release of the operating system installed.
Valid values depend on the current version, release, and modification level, and they change with each new release. Press F4 to see a list of valid target release values.

Top

Clear (CLEAR)

Specifies whether active data on the media is automatically cleared or replaced. Active data is any file on the media that has not expired. For saves to tape, clearing active data will make any files on the tape volume beyond the last file written by the save operation no longer accessible. For saves to optical, the files written by the save operation can be automatically replaced while other files on the volume remain active, or all active files can be automatically cleared. Clearing does not erase the data, it just makes the files no longer accessible.

Notes:

- Clearing a tape does not initialize it. You should initialize tapes to a standard label format before the save command is issued by using the Initialize Tape (INZTAP) command and specifying a value for the NEWVOL parameter.

- Clearing an optical volume does initialize it.

- If a volume that is not initialized is encountered during the save operation, an inquiry message is sent and an operator can initialize the volume.

*NONE
None of the media is automatically cleared. If the save operation encounters active data on a tape volume or in a save file, an inquiry message is sent, allowing the operator to either end the save operation or clear the media. If the save operation encounters the specified optical file, an inquiry message is sent, allowing the operator to either end the save operation or replace the file.

*ALL
All of the media is automatically cleared.

If tapes are used and a sequence number is specified for the SEQNBR parameter, the first tape is cleared beginning at that sequence number. All tapes following that first tape are completely cleared. To clear the entire first tape, SEQNBR(1) must be specified.

*AFTER
All media after the first volume is automatically cleared. If the save operation encounters active data on the first tape volume, an inquiry message is sent, allowing the operator to either end the save operation or clear the media. If the save operation encounters the specified optical file on the first volume, an inquiry message is sent, allowing the operator to either end the save operation or replace the file.

Note: The *AFTER value is not valid for save files.

*REPLACE
Active data on the media is automatically replaced. Optical volumes are not initialized. Other media is automatically cleared in the same way as the *ALL value.

Top

Data compression (DTACPR)

Specifies whether data compression is used. If the save is running while other jobs on the system are active and software compression is used, the overall system performance may be affected.

*DEV
If the save is to tape and the target device supports compression, hardware compression is performed. Otherwise, no data compression is performed.

*NO
No data compression is performed.

*YES
If the save is to tape and the target device supports compression, hardware compression is performed. If compression is not supported, or if the save data is written to optical media or to a save file, software compression is performed. Low software compression is used for all devices except optical DVD, which uses medium software compression.

*LOW
If the save operation is to a save file or optical, software data compression is performed with the SNA algorithm. Low compression is usually faster and the compressed data is usually larger than if medium or high compression is used.

*MEDIUM
If the save operation is to a save file or optical, software data compression is performed with the TERSE algorithm. Medium compression is usually slower than low compression but faster than high compression. The compressed data is usually smaller than if low compression is used and larger than if high compression is used.

*HIGH
If the save operation is to a save file or optical, software data compression is performed with the LZ1 algorithm. High compression is usually slower and the compressed data is usually smaller than if low or medium compression is used.

*ZLIB
If the save operation is to a save file or optical, software data compression is performed using the ZLIB deflate algorithm.

Top

License acceptance required (LICACPRQD)

Specifies whether or not the user will be prompted for license acceptance when the saved licensed program is restored. If the licensed program being saved does not have online software agreements, no prompt will be done at restore time. This parameter does not affect the license acceptance status of the licensed program currently installed.

*NO
License acceptance will not be required when the saved licensed program is restored.

*YES
License acceptance will be required when the saved licensed program is restored, if the licensed program being saved has online software agreements.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Tapes Cleared Automatically

SAVLICPGM LICPGM(5770WDS) DEV(TAP01) CLEAR(*ALL)

This command saves the *BASE option of the Rational Development Studio licensed program (5770WDS). It is saved on the tape that is in the TAP01 tape drive. Each uncleared tape is cleared automatically when it is encountered, and the save operation continues without operator intervention.

Example 2: Saving on Labeled Tape Volume

SAVLICPGM LICPGM(5770WDS) DEV(TAP01) VOL(ABCDE)

The *BASE option of the Rational Development Studio licensed program (5770WDS) is saved on the TAP01 tape drive, starting on the tape volume labeled ABCDE. If the save operation exceeds the storage capacity of one tape, a message requesting that another volume be placed in the TAP01 tape drive is shown to the operator.

Example 3: Saving on Multiple Volumes

SAVLICPGM LICPGM(5770SS1) OPTION(2) DEV(TAP01 TAP02)

The online help option of the IBM i licensed program (5770SS1) is saved on tape drives TAP01 and TAP02 in alternating order. If the save operation exceeds the storage capacity of two tapes, a message requesting that another volume be put on TAP01 is shown to the operator. The tapes are rewound at the completion of the save operation.

Example 4: Saving to Save Files Cleared Automatically

SAVLICPGM LICPGM(5770WDS) DEV(*SAVF)
CLEAR(*ALL) SAVF(MYLIB/MYSAVF)

This command saves the base option of the Rational Development Studio licensed program (5770WDS). It is saved to the save file MYSAVF in the library MYLIB. The save file MYSAVF is cleared automatically and the save operation continues without operator intervention.

Example 5: Saving program objects to a save file

SAVLICPGM LICPGM(1MYPROD) OPTION(*BASE)
DEV(*SAVF) RLS(*ONLY)
OBJTYPE(*PGM) SAVF(MYLIB/MYSAVF)

The 1MYPROD product consists of two libraries and does not have any folders. Only the program objects for 1MYPROD product will be saved in the save file, MYSAVF, in MYLIB library.

Example 6: Saving all objects in one library to a save file

SAVLICPGM LICPGM(1MYPROD) OPTION(*BASE)
DEV(*SAVF) RLS(*ONLY)
LNG(2924) OBJTYPE(*ALL) SAVF(MYLIB/MYSAVF)

The 1MYPROD product consists of only one library and does not have any folders. The program objects and language objects for the NLV 2924 of 1MYPROD product will be saved in the save file, MYSAVF, in MYLIB library.

Example 7: Saving all objects in two libraries to a save file

SAVLICPGM LICPGM(1MYPROD) OPTION(*BASE)
DEV(*SAVF) RLS(*ONLY)
LNG(2924) OBJTYPE(*ALL) SAVF(MYLIB/MYSAVF)

The 1MYPROD product consists of two libraries and has one root folder with the *PGM objects, and one subfolder of that root folder with the *LNG objects. The program objects and language objects for the NLV 2924 of 1MYPROD product will be saved in the save file, MYSAVF, in MYLIB library.

Example 8: Saving for a previous release.

SAVLICPGM LICPGM(1MYPROD) DEV(TAP01) TGTRLS(*PRV)

The 1MYPROD product will be saved to TAP01 and may be restored on a system with the previous release of the operating system installed.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF3D93
Objects for product &1 option &2 release &5 not saved.

Top