COPY Statement - Format 1 - Basic

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Compiler-Directing Statements > COPY Statement > COPY Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Compiler-Directing Statements > COPY Statement

COPY Statement - Format 1 - Basic

COPY Statement - Format 1

>>-COPY--text-name---------------------------------------------->

>--+-------------------------------------------+---------------->
   '-+-OF-+--+--------------------+--file-name-'   
    '-IN-' | (1) |    
    '-library-name- -----'    

>--+--------------+--+-----------------------+--.--------------><
   | (2) | '-REPLACING--| phrase |-'    
   '-SUPPRESS-----'    

Notes:Required hyphen between library-name-file-name to qualify.IBM® Extensiontext-name
The text-name is the name of the member to
be copied. The text-name must begin with an alphabetic character.
The first 10 characters of the text-name are used as the member name;
these first 10 characters must, therefore, be unique within one file. Text-name
can be qualified by the library-name and file-name in which it resides.
If no file-name is specified, QCBLLESRC is assumed as the file-name.
If the copy member is not found in default file QCBLLESRC then file
QLBLSRC is searched next for the copy member. If the file-name is
not qualified by a library-name, file-name is assumed to reside in
a library in the library list. A hyphen is required between library-name
and file-name, with no intervening spaces. For example, to qualify
file MYFILE in library MYLIB code as MYLIB-MYFILE.
The library-name,
file-name, and text-name must follow the rules for formation of a
program-name.

library-name
The
first 10 characters of the library-name are used as the identifying
name; these first 10 characters must therefore be unique within the
system. To qualify file-name, a hyphen is required between library-name
and file-name with no intervening spaces.

Each COPY statement must be preceded by a space and ended with
a separator period.
A COPY statement may appear in the source program anywhere a character
string or a separator may appear; however, a COPY statement must not
be specified within a COPY statement. The resulting copied text must
not contain a COPY statement.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension COPY statements can be nested.
However, nested COPY statements cannot contain the REPLACING phrase,
and a COPY statement with the REPLACING phrase cannot contain nested
COPY statements.
A COPY statement may not cause recursion.
That is, a COPY member may be named only once in a set of nested COPY
statements until the end-of-file for that COPY member is reached.
End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension Debugging lines are permitted within library text and pseudo-text.
Text words within a debugging line participate in the matching rules as if the D did not appear in the indicator
area. A debugging line is specified within pseudo-text if the debugging
line begins in the source program after the opening pseudo-text-delimiter
but before the matching closing pseudo-text-delimiter.
When a COPY statement is specified on a debugging line, the copied
text is treated as though it appeared on a debugging line, except
that comment lines in the text appear as comment lines in the resulting
source program.
If the word COPY appears in a comment-entry, or in the place where
a comment-entry may appear, it is considered part of the comment-entry.
After all COPY and REPLACE statements have been processed, a debugging
line will be considered to have all the characteristics of a comment
line, if the WITH DEBUGGING MODE clause is not specified in the SOURCE-COMPUTER
paragraph.
Comment lines or blank lines may occur in library text. Comment lines or
blank lines appearing in library text are copied into the resultant
source program unchanged with the following exception: a comment line
or blank line in library text is not copied if that comment line or
blank line appears within the sequence of text words that match pseudo-text-1
(refer to Replacement and Comparison Rules).
The syntactic correctness of the entire COBOL source program cannot
be determined until all COPY statements have been completely processed,
because the syntactic correctness of the library text cannot be independently
determined.
Library text copied from the library is placed into the same area
of the resultant program as it is in the library. Library text must
conform to the rules for Standard COBOL format.

Parent topic: COPY Statement