CLRL (Clear Line) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

CLRL (Clear Line) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword to specify
that the IBM® i operating
system is to clear (delete) a specific number of lines before the
record is displayed. Only those lines are cleared.

Note: As with OVERLAY, other records remain on the display.
See
the Application Display Programming book for
information about how to use CLRL in files that are used in the System/36 environment.
The
format of the keyword is:
CLRL(nn|*END|*NO|*ALL)You
can specify the CLRL keyword in one of the following ways:

Specify nn, where nn is an integer between 1 and 27. The number
specified is the number of lines cleared, starting with and including
the first line on which the record is to be displayed. If the SLNO
(Starting Line Number) keyword is also specified for this record format,
the clearing of lines begins with the starting line number in effect
for the record format at the time it is displayed. Note: When
you specify nn, the record must have at least one field defined.

Specify *END to indicate that all lines starting with and including
the first line on which the record is to be displayed are to be cleared.
For a 24 x 80 display, lines up to and including line 24 are cleared.
For a 27 x 132 display, lines up to and including line 27 are cleared.

Specify *NO so that no lines on the display are cleared before
displaying the record whose format you are defining. The displayed
record overlays any data already on the display.

Specify *ALL so that all of the lines on the display are cleared
before displaying the record whose format you are defining. At least
one field must be defined in the record format.

When a record format begins with a field in position 1, the
beginning attribute byte of the format is in the last position of
the previous line. The previous line number is the starting line number
in the format. This also applies to a SLNO format with a field defined
in the DDS in line 1, position 1.
If the record format for which
the CLRL keyword is specified has one or more input-capable fields,
any records that are overlaid are no longer recognized by the IBM i operating system.
That is, any input-capable fields can no longer be typed into, any
input operation written to one of those records results in an error,
and they cannot be cleared by selecting the ERASE keyword.
If
you specify the CLRL(nn) keyword in a record format without input-capable
fields, the input-capable fields in the overlapped records remain
input-capable. That is, input-capable fields in the overlaid records
remain input-capable, and input operations written to those record
formats are still valid. If the ROLLUP or ROLLDOWN keywords are specified
on the record containing the CLRL keyword, they are ignored. Records
with the CLRL keyword and no input-capable fields are not cleared
properly when they are overlaid by other records that have the OVERLAY
keyword specified. The lines needed for the overlapping record are
cleared and the lines not needed for the overlapping record remain
on the display.
You can use the CLRL(*NO) keyword to prevent
an overlapped record from being cleared when the overlapping record
is written to the display. If you use this keyword, any records being
displayed that are to be overlapped are not cleared from the display.
The new record overlays them entirely or partially. There is a performance
advantage to using CLRL(*NO) if you have a display containing constants
and data that is repeatedly sent to the display. Sending constants
as a separate format and using the CLRL(*NO) keyword for the format
containing the data reduces the time required to send the record format
to the display.
If the CLRL keyword is not specified and neither
OVERLAY nor PUTOVR (Put with Explicit Override) is specified, the
entire display is cleared.
If the CLRL keyword is used and the
PUTOVR or PUTRETAIN keyword is in effect, the clearing of any lines
might conflict with the PUTOVR or PUTRETAIN function. The PUTOVR or
PUTRETAIN keyword requires that the fields being overridden be on
the display, while the CLRL(nn) or CLRL(*END) keyword clears those
fields first. If a record becomes unavailable for input because of
the CLRL(nn) or CLRL(*END) keyword, the input-capable fields remain
input-capable if the PUTOVR keyword is in effect. However, the IBM i operating system sends
a message if the program attempts to read such a record.
If
you specify the CLRL keyword, you should also specify RSTDSP(*YES)
on the Create Display File (CRTDSPF) or Change Display File (CHGDSPF)
command. Otherwise, data on the display can be lost if the file is
suspended.

Preventing overlapped records from being clearedThe
CLRL keyword cannot be specified with any of the following keywords:

ASSUME
KEEP
SFL

SFLCTL
USRDFN

A warning message appears at file creation time if the
CLRL keyword is specified on a record with the DSPMOD keyword. At
run time, the CLRL keyword is ignored when the display mode changes.
The
CLRL keyword cannot be specified for the record format specified by
the PASSRCD keyword.
Option indicators are not valid for this
keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how
to specify the CLRL keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R RECORD1 CLRL(5)
00020A FLD1 5 3 2
00030A FLD2 10 OB 5 2
00040A FLD3 10 I 6 2
00050A*
00060A R RECORD2 CLRL(*NO)
00070A FLD1 5 2 2 2
00080A FLD2 5 H
00090A FLD3 10 I 4 2
00100A*
00110A R RECORD3 CLRL(*END)
00120A FLD1 5 B 5 2
00130A FLD2 5 I 8 2
ALines 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 are cleared before RECORD1
is displayed. In RECORD2, no lines are cleared, and when the record
is displayed, it will overlay anything already displayed. Lines 5
through 24 are cleared before RECORD3 is displayed.