Quantified predicate

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Predicates > Predicates

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Predicates

Quantified predicate
A quantified predicate compares a value or values
with a set of values.
expression =  <>  <  >  <=  >= 1SOMEANYALL(fullselect)row-value-expression = SOMEANY(fullselect)row-value-expression <> ALL(fullselect)
When expression is specified, the fullselect must
return a single result column. The fullselect can return any number
of values, whether null or not null. The result depends on the operator
that is specified:
When ALL is specified, the result of the predicate is: True if the result of the fullselect is empty, or if the specified
relationship is true for every value returned by the fullselect.
False if the specified relationship is false for at least one
value returned by the fullselect.
Unknown if the specified relationship is not false for any values
returned by the fullselect and at least one comparison is unknown
because of a null value.

When SOME or ANY is specified, the result of the predicate is:
True if the specified relationship is true for at least one value
returned by the fullselect.
False if the result of the fullselect is empty, or if the specified
relationship is false for every value returned by the fullselect.
Unknown if the specified relationship is not true for any of the
values returned by the fullselect and at least one comparison is unknown
because of a null value.

When row-value-expression is specified, the number
of result columns returned by the fullselect must be the same as the
number of value expressions specified by row-value-expression.
The fullselect can return any number of rows of values. The data types
of the corresponding expressions of the row value expressions must
be compatible. The value of each expression from row-value-expression is
compared with the value of the corresponding result column from the
fullselect. SELECT * is not allowed in the outermost select lists
of the fullselect. The value of the predicate depends on the
operator that is specified:
When ALL is specified, the result of the predicate is: True if the result of the fullselect is empty or if the specified
relationship is true for every row returned by fullselect.
False if the specified relationship is false for at least one
row returned by the fullselect.
Unknown if the specified relationship is not false for any row
returned by the fullselect and at least one comparison is unknown
because of a null value.

When SOME or ANY is specified, the result of the predicate is:
True if the specified relationship is true for at least one row
returned by the fullselect.
False if the result of the fullselect is empty or if the specified
relationship is false for every row returned by the fullselect.
Unknown if the specified relationship is not true for any of the
rows returned by the fullselect and at least one comparison is unknown
because of a null value.

If the corresponding operands of the predicate are SBCS
data, mixed data, or Unicode data, and if the collating sequence in
effect at the time the statement is executed is not *HEX, then the
comparison of the operands is performed using weighted values for
the operands. The weighted values are based on the collating sequence.
ExamplesTable TBLA
COLA
-----
1
2
3
4
null

Table TBLB
COLB
-----
2
3

Example 1
SELECT * FROM TBLA WHERE COLA = ANY(SELECT COLB FROM TBLB)

Results in 2,3. The fullselect returns (2,3). COLA in
rows 2 and 3 equals at least one of these values.
Example 2
SELECT * FROM TBLA WHERE COLA > ANY(SELECT COLB FROM TBLB)

Results in 3,4. The fullselect returns (2,3). COLA in
rows 3 and 4 is greater than at least one of these values.
Example 3
SELECT * FROM TBLA WHERE COLA > ALL(SELECT COLB FROM TBLB)

Results in 4. The fullselect returns (2,3). COLA in row
4 is the only one that is greater than both these values.
Example 4
SELECT * FROM TBLA WHERE COLA > ALL(SELECT COLB FROM TBLB WHERE COLB<0)

Results in 1,2,3,4 and null. The fullselect returns no
values. Thus, the result of the predicate is true for all rows in
TBLA.
Example 5
SELECT * FROM TBLA WHERE COLA > ANY(SELECT COLB FROM TBLB WHERE COLB<0)

Results in an empty result table.
The fullselect returns no values. Thus, the result of the predicate
is false for all rows in TBLA.

Parent topic: Predicates