DISPLAY Statement Behavior

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > DISPLAY Statement > DISPLAY Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > DISPLAY Statement

DISPLAY Statement Behavior
The DISPLAY statement transfers the data in the sending field to
the output device. The
size of the sending field is the total character count of all operands
listed. If the hardware device is capable of receiving data of the
same size as the data item being transferred, then the data item is
transferred. If the hardware device is not capable of receiving data
of the same size as the data item being transferred, then one of the
following applies: If the total character count is less than the device maximum logical
record size, the remaining rightmost characters are padded with spaces.
If the total character count exceeds the maximum, as many records
are written as are needed to display all operands. Any operand being
printed or displayed when the end of a record is reached is continued
in the next record.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension If a DBCS or national operand
must be split across multiple records, it splits only on a double-byte
boundary. End of IBM Extension End of IBM Extension

After the last operand has been transferred to the output device,
the device is reset to the leftmost position of the next line of the
device.
The logical record length depends on the device as follows:
Output
Maximum Logical Record Size

Job log
120 characters

Workstation
58 characters

System operator's message queue
58 characters

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension If a DBCS or national item or
literal is specified in a DISPLAY verb, the size of the sending field
is the total character count of all operands listed, with each DBCS
or national character counted twice, plus all necessary shift codes
for DBCS. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension When a program in a batch job processes a DISPLAY statement
without the UPON phrase, or with an UPON phrase associated with the
REQUESTOR, the output is sent to the job log in an informational message
of severity 99. You can change the severity of this message using
the Change Message Description (CHGMSGD) CL command. For more
information, see theCL and APIs section of the Programming category
in the IBM® i
Information Center at
this Web site - http://www.ibm.com/systems/i/infocenter/
For an interactive job that uses display device files, DISPLAY
statements are not normally used. If you do use them, the following
considerations apply.
When an interactive job processes a DISPLAY statement, the logical
record appears on the screen in the Program Messages display.
The following screen shows a sample Program Messages display.
Display Program Messages

JOB 000745/QPGMR/WS1 started on 02/17/92 at 14:50:22 in subsystem QINTER 1 
SAMPLE PROGRAM MESSAGE FROM PREVIOUS CALL OF PROGRAM. 2 
SAMPLE PROGRAM MESSAGE FROM CURRENT CALL OF PROGRAM. 2 

 1  System messages for this session.
 2 Program messages for this session.

This display contains messages from the current program processing,
as well as messages relating to other activities in the session.
When a DISPLAY statement is processed, the characteristics of the
display device file on the screen determine whether or not to suspend
program processing: RSTDSP(*NO) If you specify this parameter when you change or
create the display device file, DISPLAY statement processing suspends
program processing, and the Program Messages display appears on the
screen. Press Enter to resume program processing and immediately return
the previous display to the screen.

RSTDSP(*YES) If you specify this parameter when you change
or create the display device file, or run the DISPLAY statement from
the Command Entry display, DISPLAY statement processing does not suspend
program processing.
The Program Messages display appears on
the screen and remains there until either: The program processes a nonsubfile READ or WRITE statement for
the file. The Program Messages display then disappears, and the previous
display returns to the screen.
The program ends.

Note: If you want to suspend program processing, code an
ACCEPT statement after the DISPLAY statement. This suspends program
processing until you press Enter.

To view output records after the program terminates, press the
F10 key from the Command Entry display.
For additional information on interactive processing, see the IBM Rational® Development Studio
for i: ILE COBOL Programmer's Guide . For additional information
on the RSTDSP parameter, see the CHGDSPF and CRTDSPF commands in the CL
and APIs section of the Programming category in the IBM i
Information Center at this
Web site - http://www.ibm.com/systems/i/infocenter/.
When a program started by a workstation operator sends a DISPLAY
to the system operator’s message queue (separate from the workstation),
program processing is not suspended.
The location of the output data is dependent upon the type
of program initiation as follows:
Method of Initiation
Mnemonic-Name Associated with SYSTEM-CONSOLE
Mnemonic-Name Associated with REQUESTOR
UPON Phrase Omitted

BATCH
System operator’s message queue
Job log
Job log

INTERACTIVE
System operator’s message queue
Workstation
Workstation

Parent topic: DISPLAY Statement