REVOKE (type privileges)

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

REVOKE (type privileges)
This form of the REVOKE statement removes the privileges
on a type.
InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared.
AuthorizationThe privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
For each distinct type or array type identified in
the statement: Every privilege specified in the statement
The system authority of *OBJMGT on the type
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the type

Database administrator authority
Security administrator authority

SyntaxREVOKEALLPRIVILEGES,ALTERUSAGEON TYPE,distinct-type-namearray-type-nameFROM,USERGROUPauthorization-namePUBLIC
DescriptionALL or ALL PRIVILEGES
Revokes one or
more type privileges from each authorization-name. The privileges
revoked are those privileges on the identified user-defined types
that were granted to the authorization-names. Note that revoking
ALL PRIVILEGES on a type is not the same as revoking the system authority
of *ALL. If you do not use ALL, you must use one or more of the
keywords listed below. Each keyword revokes the privilege described.

ALTER
Revokes the privilege to use the
COMMENT and LABEL statements.
USAGE
Revokes the privilege to use user-defined
types in tables, functions, procedures, or as the source type in a
CREATE TYPE statement.
ON TYPE distinct-type-name or array-type-name
Identifies
the distinct type from which the privilege is revoked. The distinct-type-name or array-type-name must
identify a user-defined type that exists at the current server.
FROM
Identifies
from whom the privileges are revoked. USER
Specifies that the authorization-name identifies a user
profile. If USER is specified, authorization-name cannot be
a group profile.
GROUP
Specifies that the authorization-name identifies a group
profile. If GROUP is specified, authorization-name cannot be
a user profile.
authorization-name,…
Lists one or more authorization IDs.
Do not specify the same authorization-name more than once.
PUBLIC
Revokes
a grant of the privilege to PUBLIC. For more information, see Authorization, privileges and object ownership.

NotesMultiple
grants: If authorization ID A granted the same privilege to authorization
ID B more than once, revoking that privilege from B nullifies all
those grants.
Revoking WITH GRANT OPTION: The only way to revoke
the WITH GRANT OPTION is to revoke ALL.
Privilege warning: Revoking a specific privilege
from a user does not necessarily prevent that user from performing
an action that requires that privilege. For example, the user may
still have the privilege through PUBLIC privileges or database administrator authority.
Corresponding system authorities: When
a type privilege is revoked, the corresponding system authorities
are revoked. For information about the system authorities that correspond
to SQL privileges see GRANT (type privileges).
Syntax alternatives: The following keywords are
synonyms supported for compatibility to prior releases. These keywords
are non-standard and should not be used:
The keywords DATA TYPE or DISTINCT TYPE can be used as a synonym
for TYPE.

ExampleRevoke the USAGE privilege on distinct
type SHOESIZE from user JONES.
REVOKE USAGE
ON DISTINCT TYPE SHOESIZE
FROM JONES

Parent topic: Statements