Opening and closing files in a CL program or procedure

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Working with files in CL programs or procedures > Working with files in CL programs or procedures

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Working with files in CL programs or procedures

Opening and closing files in a CL program or procedure
If you understand when and how files can be opened and closed,
you can share open data paths between running programs or procedures.
When you use CL support, the file referred to is implicitly opened
when you do your first send, receive, or send/receive operation. An opened
display file remains open until the procedure or original program model (OPM)
program in which it was opened returns or transfers control. An opened database
file is closed when end of file is reached, or when the procedure or OPM program
in which it was opened returns or transfers control. After a database file
has been closed, it cannot be opened again during the same call of the procedure
or OPM program.
When a database file opens, the first member in the
file will open, unless you previously used an Override Database File
(OVRDBF) command to specify a different member (MBR parameter).
If a procedure or OPM program ends because of an error, the files close. A
file remains open until the procedure or OPM program in which that file was
opened ends. Because of this, you have an easy way to share open data paths
between running procedures and programs. You can open a file in one procedure
or program. Then the file can share its open data path with another procedure
or program under either of the following conditions:
The file was created with or has been changed to have the SHARE(*YES)
attribute.
An override for that file by specifying SHARE(*YES) is in effect.

You can share files in this way between any two procedures or programs.
Use online help for a detailed description of the function available when
the system shares open data paths. Additionally, IBM provides a description
of the SHARE parameter on the Create Display File (CRTDSPF), Create
Physical File (CRTPF), and Create Logical File (CRTLF) commands
online. A display file opened in a CL procedure or OPM program always opens
for both input and output. A database file opened in a CL procedure or OPM
program opens for input only.
Do not specify LVL(*CALLER) on the Reclaim
Resources (RCLRSC) command in CL procedures and programs using files.
If you specified LVL(*CALLER), all files opened by the procedure or OPM program
would be immediately closed, and any attempt to access the file would end
abnormally.

Parent topic: Working with files in CL programs or procedures