Character sets and code pages

Character sets and code pages

Last Updated: 2025-10-07

The following example shows how a typical character set might map
to different code points in two different code pages.

Even with the same encoding scheme there are many different coded character
sets, and the same code point can represent a different character in different
coded character sets. Furthermore, a byte in a character string does not necessarily
represent a character from a single-byte character set (SBCS). Character strings
are also used for mixed data (a mixture of single-byte characters and double-byte
characters) and for data that is not associated with any character set (called
bit data). This is not the case with graphic strings; the database manager
assumes that every pair of bytes in every graphic string represents a character
from a double-byte character set (DBCS) or universal coded character set (UCS-2
or UTF-16).

A coded character set identifier (CCSID) in a native encoding scheme is
one of the coded character sets in which data may be stored at that site.
A CCSID in a foreign encoding scheme is one of the coded character sets in
which data cannot be stored at that site. For example, Db2 for
i can
store data in a CCSID with an EBCDIC encoding scheme, but not in an ASCII
encoding scheme.

A variable containing data in a foreign encoding scheme (other
than Unicode) is always converted to a CCSID in the native encoding scheme
when the variable is used in a function or in the select-list. A variable
containing data in a foreign encoding scheme is also effectively converted
to a CCSID in the native encoding scheme when used in comparison or in an
operation that combines strings. Which CCSID in the native encoding scheme
the data is converted to is based on the foreign CCSID and the default CCSID.

For details on character conversion, see:

- Conversion rules for assignments

- Conversion rules for comparison:

- Conversion rules for operations that combine strings

- Data representation considerations.