Configure PM Agent (CFGPM400)

Configure PM Agent (CFGPM400)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run:

- Interactive job (*INTERACT)

- Using QCMDEXEC, QCAEXEC, or QCAPCMD API (*EXEC)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Configure PM Agent (CFGPMAGT) command asks you a series of questions about how you want to set up your IBM i systems to send and receive PM Agent performance data. How you want to use your systems will dictate how you respond to the questions.

If you are sending your PM Agent performance data via Universal Connection, select option 1 ('Send data with Service Agent') for 'Select connectivity option for sending performance data to IBM' .

For more instructions on how to transmit PM Agent performance data via Universal Connection, see the 'Send PM Agent data with Service Agent Using Universal Connection' information that is available from the i5/OS Information Center (http://www.ibm.com/systems/i/infocenter).

You can configure your system in any of the following ways:

- As a central system, which means that you want your system to receive performance data from other IBM i systems (remote systems) and then forward the data to IBM. The central system cannot be at a release level that is earlier than other systems. In other words, the central system must be at the same release level or later than the remote systems.

- As a remote system, which means you send performance data to a central system. Specify on the PM Agent Configuration panel that you need a remote system, and then, on the central system, select option 5 (Work with Remote IBM i systems) from the PM Agent menu to define your remote systems.

- As a single system that sends its data directly to IBM.

These values are valid for the Select connectivity option for sending performance data to IBM field:

0 = Do not send performance data
Use this value if this system will not send the PM Agent performance data to IBM. If, at a later time, you wish to send your performance data to IBM, you can run the CFGPMAGT command again.

1 = Send data with Service Agent
Use this value when you want to transmit your PM Agent performance data to IBM using Service Agent. '1' is used for two cases: either for the central system of a central/remote combination, or for the single system case.

2 = This is a remote IBM i using SNA
The remote system sends performance data to a central system, when requested to do so by the central system. You identify on the Configure PM Agent display that the system is a remote system. Then, on the central system, you use Option 5 (Work with remote IBM i systems) to define your remote systems. The central system on a scheduled basis requests the remote systems to send their data to the central system for transmission to IBM.

These values are valid for the Receive performance data field:

0 = NO
Specifies that this system does not receive the PM Agent performance data. Use this value if this is a single system that sends performance data to IBM.

1 = YES
Specifies that this system receives the PM Agent performance data from other systems for transmission to IBM.

Top

Parameters

None

Top

Examples

CFGPMAGT

This command will show an approval panel. If Enter is pressed, the Configure PM Agent panel is shown.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPFB020
Configure PM Agent command ended in error.

Top