Remove Distribution List Entry (RMVDSTLE)

Remove Distribution List Entry (RMVDSTLE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Remove Distribution List Entry (RMVDSTLE) command allows you to remove entries from a distribution list. Up to 300 entries can be removed from the list at one time.

Restriction: You must have security administrator authority (*SECADM) to remove entries from a distribution list owned by someone else.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
LSTID | List identifier | Element list | Required, Positional 1
Element 1: List ID | Character value
Element 2: List ID qualifier | Character value
USRID | User identifier | Values (up to 300 repetitions): Element list | Required, Positional 2
Element 1: User ID | Character value
Element 2: Address | Character value
Element 3: User description | Character value, *FIRST, *ALL
CMDCHRID | Command character identifier | Single values: *SYSVAL, *DEVD
Other values: Element list | Optional
Element 1: Graphic character set | Integer
Element 2: Code page | Integer

Top

List identifier (LSTID)

Specifies the two-part list identification (ID) of the distribution list that is to have entries removed.

This is a required parameter.

list-identification
The list ID is entered in two parts separated by at least one space. If any lowercase characters are specified, the system changes them into uppercase letters.

If any lowercase characters are specified, the system changes them to, and stores them as, uppercase characters.

Top

User identifier (USRID)

Specifies the user ID, address, and description of the user being removed from the distribution list. Both the user ID and address must be provided. The description can be entered to specify deletion of a specific description for a user ID.

You can enter multiple values for this parameter.

A two-part list ID (user-ID and address) can be used in place of the user ID and address to identify a remote distribution list being removed.

Up to 300 sets of user IDs, addresses, and descriptions can be specified. Each valid set is removed from the distribution list.

At least one set of user IDs is required.

user-id and address
Specify the user ID and address being removed.

If any lowercase characters are specified, the system changes them to, and stores them as, uppercase characters.

*FIRST
The first entry in the distribution list for the specified user ID and address is removed. If only one entry exists, it is removed from the list.

*ALL
All the entries with the specified user ID and address are removed from the distribution list.

user-description
Specify the description of the user. If a list ID is specified, enter the list description. The description can have a maximum of 50 characters.

Top

Command character identifier (CMDCHRID)

Specifies the character identifier (graphic character set and code page) for the data being entered as command parameter values.

Note:

- Only the user ID and address, system name and group, department, and the X.400 O/R parameters are translated to the graphic character set identifier (GCID) specified on this parameter. All other parameter values that you specify are stored exactly as they are entered; the GCID value is stored with them.

- If this command is run interactively, the default GCID value is taken from the display device description. If it is run in batch, the default GCID value is taken from the QCHRID system value. You can override these values by specifying a specific character set and code page on this parameter.

Single values

*SYSVAL
The system determines the graphic character set and code page values for the command parameters from the QCHRID system value.

*DEVD
The system determines the graphic character set and code page values from the display device description where this command was entered. This option is valid only when entered from an interactive job. If this option is specified in a batch job, an error occurs.

Element 1: Graphic character set

1-32767
Specify the graphic character set to use.

Element 2: Code page

1-32767
Specify the code page to use.

Note:

- Only the user ID and address, system name and group, department, and the X.400 O/R parameters are translated to the graphic character set identifier (GCID) specified on this parameter. All other parameter values that you specify are stored exactly as they are entered; the GCID value is stored with them.

- If this command is run interactively, the default GCID value is taken from the display device description. If it is run in batch, the default GCID value is taken from the QCHRID system value. You can override these values by specifying a specific character set and code page on this parameter.

Top

Examples

RMVDSTLE LSTID(CHICAGO DLIST)
USRID((HURST PAYROLL 'Manager of Payroll')
(LEE DEPT554 *FIRST)
(BOCA DLIST 'Remote Distribution List')
(BRYON WAREHSE *ALL))

In this example, four user IDs are removed from the distribution list CHICAGO DLIST. The third user ID is, in fact, a remote distribution list. All entries for BRYON WAREHSE are removed from the list.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF9024
System cannot get correct record to finish operation.

CPF905C
Error occurred trying to find a translation table.

CPF9092
No entries removed from list &1 &2.

CPF9093
&1 entries removed from list &2 &3.

CPF9096
Cannot use CMDCHRID(*DEVD), DOCCHRID(*DEVD) in batch job.

CPF9838
User profile storage limit exceeded.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

Top