End Mail Server Framework (ENDMSF)

End Mail Server Framework (ENDMSF)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The End Mail Server Framework (ENDMSF) command ends the mail server framework jobs in the system work subsystem (QSYSWRK).

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
OPTION | How to end | *CNTRLD, *IMMED | Optional, Positional 1
DELAY | Controlled end delay time | 1-999999, 30 | Optional, Positional 2

Top

How to end (OPTION)

Specifies whether the mail server framework jobs that are in the system work subsystem (QSYSWRK) end immediately or in a controlled manner.

The possible values are:

*CNTRLD
All mail server framework jobs are ended in a controlled manner. This allows each framework job a chance to complete processing the current mail server framework messages before it ends.

*IMMED
All mail server framework jobs are ended immediately. Any mail server framework messages being processed at the time the job ended are processed when the mail server framework is restarted.

Top

Controlled end delay time (DELAY)

Specifies the amount of time (in seconds) allowed for the mail server framework jobs to complete their processing during a controlled end. This parameter is ignored if OPTION(*IMMED) is specified. If the jobs do not end before the end of the delay time, they are then immediately ended.

The possible values are:

30
A maximum delay time of 30 seconds is allowed before the mail server framework jobs are ended.

delay-time
Specify the maximum amount of delay time in seconds before the jobs are ended. Valid values range from 1 through 999999.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Ending Mail Server Framework in a Controlled Manner

ENDMSF OPTION(*CNTRLD) DELAY(60)

This command ends the mail server framework jobs in the system work subsystem in a controlled manner and has 60 seconds to complete processing any mail server framework messages currently being handled.

Example 2: Ending Mail Server Framework Immediately

ENDMSF OPTION(*IMMED)

This command ends the mail server framework jobs in the system work subsystem immediately. The mail server framework jobs do not complete processing any mail server framework messages currently being handled.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPFAFAB
ENDMSF did not complete successfully.

CPFAFAC
ENDMSF completed successfully; however errors occurred.

CPFAFFF
Internal system error in program &1.

Top