SFLNXTCHG (Subfile Next Changed) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

SFLNXTCHG (Subfile Next Changed) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword on the subfile
record format to force the workstation user to correct program-detected typing
errors in subfile records that have been read by the program.

The program does this by causing a record to be
changed so that a get-next-changed operation must read the record as described
in the following section.
This keyword has no parameters.

Subfile operations with SFLNXTCHGA typical use
of SFLNXTCHG can be as follows:
A workstation user changes some records
in a displayed subfile (this can be for a data-entry application or a data-update
application). After changing some records, the workstation user presses the
Enter key, and the program reads only the changed records with get-next-changed
operations. (For example, READC in RPG III and READ-SUBFILE-NEXT-MODIFIED
in COBOL.)
If the program detects typing errors in the changed records,
it can send update operations (UPDATE in RPG IV, REWRITE SUBFILE in COBOL)
to the subfile records in error, setting indicators so that SFLNXTCHG is in
effect during the update operations. These update operations are sent to the
subfile record format.
After all the records in error have been updated,
the program sends an input/output operation to the subfile-control
record format to display the subfile again.
With the subfile displayed
again, the workstation user types the data again and presses the Enter key.
If the data is correct, the program does not display the subfile again.
The
records in error (and any other records changed by the workstation user) are
returned to the program on the next get-next-changed operation. This is because
SFLNXTCHG caused the subfile records to be considered changed even though
the workstation user did not change them. This allows the program to prohibit
the workstation user from ignoring program-detected typing errors in subfile
records.

Subfile operations without SFLNXTCHGIf SFLNXTCHG
is not specified, or is specified but not selected on the update operations
to the subfile records, then the workstation user can press the Enter key
instead of correcting the program-detected errors. The program then reads
no records because the get-next-changed operations find no changed records
the second time the Enter key is pressed.
Option indicators are valid
for this keyword.
You cannot specify SFLNXTCHG with the SFLMSGRCD keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the SFLNXTCHG keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R SFLR SFL
00020A 14 SFLNXTCHG
A*
A* (at least one input-capable field should be specified)
A*
00040A R SFLCTLR SFLCTL(SFLR)
00050A SFLPAG(17)
00060A SFLSIZ(17)
00070A SFLDSP SFLDSPCTL
A