Indexed Files

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > REWRITE Statement > REWRITE Statement Considerations > REWRITE Statement Considerations

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > REWRITE Statement > REWRITE Statement Considerations

Indexed Files
If the access mode is sequential, the last input/output statement that
was executed for the file must have been a successful READ statement. The
record to be replaced is the record that was retrieved by that statement.
The value of the RECORD KEY data-item must not have been changed since the
record was read. If
the value has been changed, then an INVALID KEY condition exists.
If the access mode is random or dynamic, the record to be replaced is specified
by the value in the RECORD KEY data-item. If the file does not contain such
a record, then an INVALID KEY condition exists.
An INVALID KEY phrase should be specified if no EXCEPTION/ERROR procedure
has been defined for the file.
For files with indexed organization, the number of characters in record-name-1
can be different from the number of character positions in the record being
replaced.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension When EXTERNALLY-DESCRIBED-KEY is specified for the file, the key data held
in the record area that corresponds to the format specified by the FORMAT
phrase (or to the first format, if the FORMAT phrase is not used) is used
to determine the current value of the RECORD KEY data-item.

When the WITH DUPLICATES phrase is specified for the file, then for all
access modes (sequential, random, and dynamic) the last input/output statement
that was executed for the file must have been a successful READ statement.
The record to be replaced is the record that was retrieved by that statement.
The value of the RECORD KEY data-item must not have been changed since the
record was read. If the value has been changed, then an INVALID KEY condition
exists.

Note: The READ statement is required to ensure that the correct
record is replaced when duplicate keys can be present in the file. The only
way to rewrite one specific record from a sequence of records with duplicate
keys is to read each of the records sequentially, and rewrite the required
record when it has been identified.
End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

Parent topic: REWRITE Statement Considerations