Work with Catalog Entries (WRKIMGCLGE)

Work with Catalog Entries (WRKIMGCLGE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: Interactive environments (*INTERACT *IPGM *IREXX *EXEC)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Work with Image Catalog Entries (WRKIMGCLGE) command is used to work with the images in the specified image catalog. The WRKIMGCLGE command allows the user to perform the following functions on images in the image catalog:

Add
This option allows the user to add an image catalog entry to the image catalog.

Change
This option allows the user to change the attributes of an image catalog entry in the image catalog.

Remove
This option allows the user to remove an image catalog entry from the image catalog.

Mount
This option allows the user to mount an image catalog entry into the virtual device and activate it.

Load
This option allows the user to load an image catalog entry into the virtual device.

Unload
This option allows the user to unload an image catalog entry from the virtual device.

Initialize
This option allows the user to initialize the virtual volume associated with the image catalog entry.

Work with volume
This option allows the user to work with the virtual optical volume associated with the image catalog entry. This option is only valid for optical image catalogs.

Display
This option allows the user to display the virtual tape volume associated with the image catalog entry.

Duplicate
This option allows the user to duplicate the virtual tape volume associated with the image catalog entry.

Dump
This option allows the user to dump the contents of the virtual tape volume associated with the image catalog entry.

Restrictions:

- The following authorities are required to view entries for the the image catalog specified:

Execute (*EXECUTE) authority to library QUSRSYS.

Use (*USE) authority to the image catalog.

- If a device of type 632B and model 003 is specified on the Virtual device (DEV) parameter, the subsequent Work with Catalog Entries (WRKIMGCLGE) panel will be restricted to only Mount and Work with volume functions.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
IMGCLG | Image catalog | Name, *DEV | Required, Positional 1
DEV | Virtual device | Name | Optional, Positional 2

Top

Image catalog (IMGCLG)

Specify the image catalog to work with.

This is a required parameter.

*DEV
Use the virtual device specified on the Virtual device (DEV) parameter to locate the image catalog.

name
Specify the name of the image catalog.

Top

Virtual device (DEV)

Specify the virtual device name of the image catalog to work with.

name
Specify the virtual device that contains the image catalog entries to work with.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Working with Image Catalog Entries by Catalog Name

WRKIMGCLGE IMGCLG(MYCLG)

This command displays the Work with Catalog Entries panel showing the entries in the image catalog MYCLG.

Example 2: Working with Image Catalog Entries by Device Name

WRKIMGCLGE IMGCLG(*DEV) DEV(OPTVRT01)

This command displays the Work with Catalog Entries panel showing the entries in the image catalog associated with virtual optical device OPTVRT01.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPFBC45
Image catalog &1 not found.

CPF4F01
Virtual device &1 is not valid.

CPF9802
Not authorized to object &2 in &3.

CPF9820
Not authorized to use library &1.

Top