SFILE(recformat:rrnfield)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > File Description Specifications > File-Description Keywords > File-Description Keywords

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > File Description Specifications > File-Description Keywords

SFILE(recformat:rrnfield)

The SFILE keyword is used to define internally the subfiles that
are specified in an externally described WORKSTN file. The recformat
parameter identifies the RPG IV name of the record format to be
processed as a subfile. The rrnfield parameter identifies the name
of the relative-record number field for this subfile. You must specify
an SFILE keyword for each subfile in the DDS.

If you define a display file like another file using
the LIKEFILE keyword, and the parent file has subfiles, then you must
specify the SFILE keyword for each subfile in the new file, so that
you can provide the names of the relative record number fields for
the subfiles.

If a file is defined with the TEMPLATE keyword, the
rrnfield parameter of the SFILE keyword is not specified.

The relative-record number of any record retrieved by a READC or
CHAIN operation is placed into the field identified by the rrnfield
parameter. This field is also used to specify the record number that RPG IV uses
for a WRITE operation to the subfile or for output operations that
use ADD. The field name specified as the rrnfield parameter must be
defined as numeric with zero decimal positions. The field must have
enough positions to contain the largest record number for the file.
(See the SFLSIZ keyword in the IBM® i
Information Center database and
file systems category.)

Relative record number processing is implicitly defined as part
of the SFILE definition. If multiple subfiles are defined, each subfile
requires the specification of the SFILE keyword.

Do not use the SFILE keyword with the SLN keyword.

Remember that for a qualified file, the unqualified form of the
record format name is used for the first parameter of the SFILE keyword.

Parent topic: File-Description Keywords