Add Network Job Entry (ADDNETJOBE)

Add Network Job Entry (ADDNETJOBE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Add Network Job Entry (ADDNETJOBE) command adds a network job entry to the network job table on the system. The network job entry is used to determine the action that is taken when a input stream is sent to a user on this system using the Submit Network Job (SBMNETJOB) command.

This entry determines whether the input stream is automatically submitted, placed on the queue of network files for a user, or rejected. The entry also specifies the user profile that is used for checking the authority to the job description referred to by the input stream. There must be one entry for each user or distribution group who intends to submit jobs to this system. There is a network attribute, JOBACN (Job Action), that provides overall control of network job submission. Its value must be *SEARCH before the network job table is searched for an action. If the network attribute is *REJECT, all incoming jobs are rejected. If the network attribute is *FILE, all incoming network jobs are saved in the user's queue of network files regardless of any network job entry. The network attribute can be changed with the Change Network Attributes (CHGNETA) command.

Each network job entry is identified by the two-part user ID of the sender. When an input stream arrives, the user ID of the sending user is used to find a network job entry. If no entry is found, the second part of the user ID is used to find an entry, using *ANY for the first part. If this search fails, a search is made using *ANY for both parts of the user ID. If no entry is found, the job is rejected.

For additional information on the network job table, refer to the SNA Distribution Services book, SC41-5410.

Restrictions:

- This command is shipped with public *EXCLUDE authority.

- The user must have *ALLOBJ (all object) authority.

- The internal value for a node identifier may differ from the characters shown by the ADDNETJOBE command depending on the type of work station (language) being used. If the byte-string value specified for the FROMUSRID command parameter does not match the rules for an internal node identifier value, or if it does not match the internal value for any defined node (ignoring case differences), an error may be reported.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
FROMUSRID | User ID | Element list | Required, Positional 1
Element 1: User ID | Character value
Element 2: User ID qualifier | Character value
ACTION | Network job action | *FILE, *REJECT, *SUBMIT | Required, Positional 2
SBMUSER | User profile | Name, QUSER | Optional, Positional 3
MSGQ | Message queue | Single values: *USRPRF, *NONE
Other values: Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Message queue | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
JOBQ | Job queue | Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Job queue | Name, QBATCH
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB

Top

User ID (FROMUSRID)

Specifies the two-part user ID of the user who submits an input stream to this system. Any input streams received from the user are handled as specified in this network job entry. Both parts of the user ID are required. A special value of *ANY can be entered for the first part or for both parts of the user ID.

Note: Depending on the type of work station being used, the internal value for a user identifier may differ from the characters shown by the Display Network Job Entry (DSPNETJOBE) command. If the byte-string value specified for the FROMUSRID parameter does not match the rules for an internal user identifier value, or if it does not match the internal value for any enrolled user, an error may be reported.

This is a required parameter.

Top

Network job action (ACTION)

Specifies the action that is taken for an input stream controlled by this entry if the network attribute JOBACN is *SEARCH.

This is a required parameter.

*REJECT
The input stream is rejected.

*FILE
The input stream is placed on the queue of network files for the user to whom the input stream is sent.

*SUBMIT
The input stream is submitted to a batch job queue. The user profile specified in the network job entry is used to check for the required authority to the job queues.

Top

User profile (SBMUSER)

Specifies the user profile name under which the jobs are submitted. This user profile is used to check the authority to the job queues and job descriptions specified in the input stream. The value specified for this parameter will be effective if ACTION(*SUBMIT) is specified either on this command or on the Change Network Job Entry (CHGNETJOBE) command.

QUSER
The IBM-supplied user profile QUSER is used to submit the jobs.

user-profile
Specify the name of the user profile that is used to submit the jobs.

Top

Message queue (MSGQ)

Specifies the name and library of the message queue to which messages are sent after an input stream arrives. A message is also sent to the history log (QHST) when a input stream arrives.

*USRPRF
The message queue of the user profile to whom the job was sent is used. This user is specified on the TOUSRID parameter of the SBMNETJOB command; this may or may not be the same user as is specified on the SBMUSER parameter of this command.

*NONE
No message is sent to a user; however, a message is sent to the history log (QHST).

message-queue-name
Specify the name of the message queue that is used to receive messages.

The possible library values are:

*LIBL
The library list is used to locate the message queue.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is used to locate the message queue. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, QGPL is used.

library-name
Specify the library where the message queue is located.

Top

Job queue (JOBQ)

Specifies the job queue on which the job entries are placed. A job entry is placed on this queue for each job in the input stream that has JOBQ(*RDR) specified on the Batch Job (BCHJOB) command. If *RDR is not specified on the BCHJOB command, the job queue specified on the BCHJOB command or in the job description is used. (The job queue for each job in the input stream can be different.) This parameter is valid only if ACTION(*SUBMIT) is specified on this command, in the existing network job entry, or in a subsequent Change Network Job Entry (CHGNETJOBE) command.

The possible values are:

QBATCH
The job entry is to use job queue QBATCH.

job-queue-name
Specify the name of the job queue that is used.

The possible library values are:

*LIBL
The library list is used to locate the job queue.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is used to locate the job queue. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, QGPL is used.

library-name
Specify the library where the job queue is located.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Submitting Input Streams Automatically

ADDNETJOBE FROMUSRID(JOHN SMITH) ACTION(*SUBMIT)
SBMUSER(ANDERSON) JOBQ(QGPL/QPGMRL)

This command adds a network job entry that is used to determine the action that is taken for any input stream received from a user with a user ID of JOHN SMITH. The input streams are submitted automatically. User profile ANDERSON is used to check the authority to the job queues and job descriptions specified in the input stream. Messages are sent to the message queue specified in the user profile of the user to whom the input stream was sent. If no job queue is specified in either the received // BCHJOB command or the referenced job description, the jobs are placed on job queue QPGMRL in the QGPL library.

Example 2: Sending Messages to Specific Message Queue

ADDNETJOBE FROMUSRID(*ANY JONES) ACTION(*FILE)
MSGQ(BROWN) SBMUSER(ANDERSON)

This command adds a network job entry that is used to determine the action taken for any input stream received from any user with JONES as the second part of the user ID for whom there is not a specific network job entry. The input stream is placed on the queue of received files for the user to whom the job was sent, and a message is sent to message queue BROWN.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF8050
Network job table could not be accessed.

CPF8051
*ANY not correct for second part of user ID.

CPF8052
Network job entry &1 &2 not added.

CPF9040
Wrong characters used in User ID or address, or List identifier &1 &2.

Top