Add Admin Domain Node Entry (ADDCADNODE)

Add Admin Domain Node Entry (ADDCADNODE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: Yes | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Add Cluster Admin Domain Node Entry (ADDCADNODE) command is used to add a new node to the domain node list of an existing cluster administrative domain. All monitored resource entries that have been defined for the cluster administrative domain will be added on the specified node. Any resources which do not exist will be created. If the cluster administrative domain is active, the monitored resources will be synchronized with the active domain from the node from which the command was called.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority on all nodes in the recovery domain to run this command. In addition if the the user profile is not the owner of the Cluster Resource Group object, the profile must have *ALLOBJ special authority on all nodes in the CRG's recovery domain and on the node being added to the recovery domain.

- The node being added to the domain node list must not already be a member of this cluster administrative domain's domain node list.

- Cluster Resource Services must be active on the node processing the request.

- There must be at least one active node in the Cluster administrative domain list.

- The node being added must be active in the cluster.

- The node being added must be unique in the domain node list of the cluster administrative domain specified.

- The cluster resource group CRG is owned by the QCLUSTER user profile. To use the cluster resource group commands with the cluster administrative domain you will need to be authorized to the cluster resource group and to the QCLUSTER user profile.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
NODE | Node identifier | Name, *ALL | Required, Positional 1
ADMDMN | Cluster administrative domain | Name, * | Optional, Positional 2
CLUSTER | Cluster | Name, * | Optional

Top

Node identifier (NODE)

Specifies the node being added to the domain node list of the cluster administrative domain specified for the Cluster administrative domain (ADMDMN) parameter.

This is a required parameter.

*ALL
Adds all nodes in the cluster that are not currently in a cluster administrative domain.

name
Specify the name of the node that is to be added.

Top

Cluster administrative domain (ADMDMN)

Specifies the cluster administrative domain which will have the new node added to its domain node list.

*
The name of the cluster administrative domain that local cluster node is part of is used.

name
Specify the cluster administrative domain.

Top

Cluster (CLUSTER)

Specifies the name of the cluster.

*
The cluster that has been configured on this system is used.

name
Specify the name of the cluster.

Top

Examples for ADDCADNODE

Example 1: Adding a node to an administrative domain

ADDCADNODE NODE(NODE1) ADMDMN(MYDOMAIN)
CLUSTER(MYCLUSTER)

This command adds node NODE1 to the domain node list of cluster administrative domain MYDOMAIN in the cluster called MYCLUSTER.

Example 2: Adding all nodes to an administrative domain

ADDCADNODE NODE(*ALL)

This command adds all nodes that are currently not in any administrative domain to the domain node list of administrative domain which the local node is part of.

Top

Error messages for ADDCADNODE

*ESCAPE Messages

HAE0002
Node &1 not added to cluster administrative domain &2.

HAE002B
&1 command failed.

Top