Remove License Key Information (RMVLICKEY)

Remove License Key Information (RMVLICKEY)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Remove License Key Information (RMVLICKEY) command can be used to remove software license key information from the license repository for products with keyed compliance. Products with "keyed compliance" require that you have a software license key from the software provider in order to change the usage limit or the expiration date of the license information.

Removing license information from the repository does not affect installed licenses. Any license that is currently being used to access the product on this system remains valid and usable.

Restrictions: This command is shipped with public *EXCLUDE authority.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
LICKEYINP | License key input | *LICKEYFILE, *PROMPT | Optional, Positional 1
PRDID | Product identifier | Character value, *ALL | Optional, Positional 2
LICTRM | License term | Character value, *ALL | Optional, Positional 3
FEATURE | Feature | Character value, *ALL | Optional, Positional 4
SERIAL | System serial number | Character value, *LOCAL, *REMOTE, *ALL | Optional
LICKEYFILE | License key file | Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: License key file | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
LICKEYMBR | License key member | Name, *FIRST, *LAST | Optional

Top

License key input (LICKEYINP)

Specifies how the software license key information to be removed is supplied.

*LICKEYFILE
The software license key information is taken from the file specified on the LICKEYFILE parameter.

*PROMPT
The software license key information is supplied through prompting.

Top

Product identifier (PRDID)

Specifies the 7-character identifier of the product for which software license key information is removed.

*ALL
The software license key information for all product identifiers is removed.

generic*-product-identifier
Specify the generic identifier of the products to be removed. A generic product identifier is specified in the same manner as a generic name.
A generic name is a character string of one or more characters followed by an asterisk (*); for example, ABC*. The asterisk substitutes for any valid characters. A generic name specifies all objects with names that begin with the generic prefix for which the user has authority. If an asterisk is not included with the generic (prefix) name, the system assumes it to be the complete object name.

product-identifier
Specify the seven-character identifier of the product.

Top

License term (LICTRM)

Specifies the license term for which software license key information is removed.

*ALL
The software license key information for all license terms found on the system are removed.

license-term
The license term can be passed as one of the following two formats:
Specify the license term in Vx, VxRy, or VxRyMz format, where x or y can be a number from 0 through 9, and z can be a number 0 through 9 or a letter A through Z.

Specify the license term in vv, vvrr, or vvrrmm format, where vv and rr can be a number from 00 through 35, and mm can be a number 00 through 09 or a letter 0A through 0Z. This format must be used if the version or release of the product is greater than 9.

Top

Feature (FEATURE)

Specifies the feature of the product specified on the PRDID parameter for which the software license key information is removed.

*ALL
The software license key information for all features of the product is removed.

feature
Specify the number of the feature for which software license key information is removed.

Top

System serial number (SERIAL)

Specify the serial number of the system for which software license key information is removed.

*LOCAL
The software license key information for the local system is removed.

*REMOTE
The software license key information to be removed is for remote systems only and depends on the value specified for the License key input (LICKEYINP) parameter.

- If LICKEYINP(*PROMPT) is specified, the software license key information for all remote systems is removed.

- If LICKEYINP(*LICKEYFILE) is specified, the software license key information for the remote systems named in the file specified on the LICKEYFILE parameter is removed.

*ALL
The software license key information to be removed is for all systems and depends on the value specified for the LICKEYINP parameter.

- If LICKEYINP(*PROMPT) is specified, the software license key information for all systems is removed.

- If LICKEYINP(*LICKEYFILE) is specified, the software license key information for all the remote systems named in the file specified on the LICKEYFILE parameter is removed.

system-serial-number
Specify the serial number of the system for which software license key information is removed.

Top

License key file (LICKEYFILE)

Specifies the qualified name of the file in which the software license key information to be removed is located. This input file must be in the format of QSYS/QALZAKEY, and can be created by using the LICKEYFILE parameter on the Display License Key Information (DSPLICKEY) command.

The name of the license key file can be qualified by one of the following library values:

*LIBL
All libraries in the library list for the current thread are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the thread is searched. If no library is specified as the current library for the thread, the QGPL library is searched.

library-name
Specify the name of the library to be searched.

The possible value is:

license-key-file
Specify the name of the file that contains the software license key information.

Top

License key member (LICKEYMBR)

Specifies the name of the member in which the software license key information to be removed is located. This member is in the file specified on the LICKEYFILE parameter.

*FIRST
The oldest member in the file is used.

*LAST
The newest member in the file is used.

license-key-member
Specify the name of the member that contains the software license key information.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Removing License Key Information from Prompt Input

RMVLICKEY LICKEYINP(*PROMPT) PRDID(1MYPROD)
LICTRM(V3) FEATURE(5001)
SERIAL(1234567)

This command removes from the license repository the software license key information for the product 1MYPROD, the license term V3, and the feature 5001 for the system with serial number 1234567.

Example 2: Removing License Key Information from File Input

RMVLICKEY LICKEYINP(*LICKEYFILE) SERIAL(*REMOTE)
LICKEYFILE(*LIBL/MYKEYFILE) LICKEYMBR(*LAST)

This command removes from the license repository the software license key information for all the remote systems found in the newest created member of the file MYKEYFILE.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF9E55
License Repository object damaged.

CPF9E57
&1 license key information records removed, &2 not removed.

CPF9E58
License key information not found.

CPF9E69
License key information not found in license key file.

Top