VARGRAPHIC

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

VARGRAPHIC
The VARGRAPHIC function returns a graphic-string representation.
Integer to Vargraphic
VARGRAPHIC(integer-expression)
Decimal to Vargraphic
VARGRAPHIC(decimal-expression,decimal-character)
Floating-point to Vargraphic
VARGRAPHIC(floating-point-expression,decimal-character)
Decimal floating-point to Vargraphic
VARGRAPHIC(decimal-floating-point-expression,decimal-character)
Character to Vargraphic
VARGRAPHIC(character-expression,lengthDEFAULT,integer)
Graphic to Vargraphic
VARGRAPHIC(graphic-expression,lengthDEFAULT,integer)
Datetime to Vargraphic
VARGRAPHIC(datetime-expression,ISOUSAEURJISLOCAL)
The VARGRAPHIC function returns a graphic-string
representation of
An integer number if the first argument is a SMALLINT, INTEGER,
or BIGINT.
A decimal number if the first argument is a packed or zoned decimal
number.
A double-precision floating-point number if the first argument
is a DOUBLE or REAL.
A decimal floating-point number if the first argument is DECFLOAT.
A character string if the first argument is any type of character
string.
A graphic string if the first argument is a Unicode graphic string.
A date value if the first argument is a DATE.
A time value if the first argument is a TIME.
A timestamp value if the first argument is a TIMESTAMP.

The result of the function is a varying-length graphic
string (VARGRAPHIC).
If the first argument can be null, the result can be null.
If the first argument is null, the result is the null value. If the
first argument is an empty string or the EBCDIC string X'0E0F',
the result is an empty string.
Integer to Vargraphicinteger-expression
An expression that returns a value that is an integer data type
(either SMALLINT, INTEGER, or BIGINT).

The result is a varying-length graphic string of the argument
in the form of an SQL integer constant. The result consists of n characters
that are the significant digits that represent the value of the argument
with a preceding minus sign if the argument is negative. It is left
justified.
If the argument is a small integer, the length attribute of the
result is 6.
If the argument is a large integer, the length attribute of the
result is 11.
If the argument is a big integer, the length attribute of the
result is 20.

The actual length of the result is the smallest number
of characters that can be used to represent the value of the argument.
Leading zeroes are not included. If the argument is negative, the
first character of the result is a minus sign. Otherwise, the first
character is a digit or the decimal-character.
The CCSID of the result is 1200 (UTF-16).
Decimal to Vargraphicdecimal-expression
An expression that returns a value that is a packed or zoned decimal
data type (either DECIMAL or NUMERIC). If a different precision and
scale is wanted, the DECIMAL scalar function can be used to make the
change.
decimal-character
Specifies the single-byte character constant that is used to delimit
the decimal digits in the result character string. The character must
be a period or comma. If the second argument is not specified, the
decimal point is the default decimal point. For more information,
see Decimal point.

The result is a varying-length graphic string representation
of the argument. The result includes a decimal character and up to p
digits, where p is the precision of the decimal-expression with
a preceding minus sign if the argument is negative. Leading zeros
are not returned. Trailing zeros are returned. If
the scale of decimal-expression is zero,
the decimal character is not returned.
The length attribute of the result is 2+p where p is
the precision of the decimal-expression.
The actual length of the result is the smallest number of characters
that can be used to represent the result, except that trailing characters
are included. Leading zeros are not included. If the argument is negative,
the result begins with a minus sign. Otherwise, the result begins
with a digit or the decimal-character.
The CCSID of the result is 1200 (UTF-16).
Floating-point to Vargraphicfloating-point expression
An expression that returns a value that is a floating-point data
type (DOUBLE or REAL).
decimal-character
Specifies the single-byte character constant that is used to delimit
the decimal digits in the result character string. The character must
be a period or comma. If the second argument is not specified, the
decimal point is the default decimal point. For more information,
see Decimal point.

The result is a varying-length graphic string representation
of the argument in the form of a floating-point constant.
The length attribute of the result is 24. The actual length
of the result is the smallest number of characters that can represent
the value of the argument such that the mantissa consists of a single
digit other than zero followed by the decimal-character and
a sequence of digits. If the argument is negative, the first character
of the result is a minus sign; otherwise, the first character is a
digit or the decimal-character. If the argument
is zero, the result is 0E0.
The CCSID of the result is 1200
(UTF-16).
Decimal floating-point to Vargraphicdecimal-floating-point expression
An expression that returns a value that is a decimal floating-point
data type.
decimal-character
Specifies the single-byte character constant that is used to delimit
the decimal digits in the result character string. The character must
be a period or comma. If the second argument is not specified, the
decimal point is the default decimal point. For more information,
see Decimal point.

The result is a varying-length graphic string
representation of the argument in the form of a decimal floating-point
constant.
The length attribute of the result is 42. The actual
length of the result is the smallest number of characters that represents
the value of the argument, including the sign, digits, and decimal-character.
Trailing zeros are significant. If the argument is negative, the first
character of the result is a minus sign; otherwise, the first character
is a digit or the decimal-character. If
the argument is zero, the result is 0.
If the DECFLOAT value
is Infinity, sNaN, or NaN, the strings
'INFINITY', 'SNAN', and 'NAN', respectively, are returned. If the
special value is negative, a minus sign will be the first character
in the string. The DECFLOAT special value sNaN does not result
in an exception when converted to a string.
The CCSID of the
result is 1200 (UTF-16).
Character to Vargraphic character-expression
Specifies a character string expression. It cannot be a CHAR or
VARCHAR bit data.
length
An integer constant that specifies the length attribute
of the result and must be an integer constant between 1 and 16370
if the first argument is not nullable or between 1 and 16369 if the
first argument is nullable. If the second argument is not specified,
or if DEFAULT is specified, the length attribute of the result is
the same as the length attribute of the first argument, except if
the expression is an empty string or the EBCDIC string X'0E0F', the
length attribute of the result is 1.
The actual length of the
result is the minimum of the length attribute of the result and the
actual length of character-expression. Each character of the
argument determines a character of the result. If the length (in characters)
of the character-expression is greater than
the length attribute of the result, truncation is performed. A warning
(SQLSTATE 01004) is returned unless the truncated characters were
all blanks.

integer
An integer constant that specifies the CCSID of the result.
It must be a DBCS, UTF-16, or UCS-2 CCSID. The CCSID cannot be 65535.
If the CCSID represents Unicode graphic data, each character of the
argument determines a character of the result. The nth character
of the result is the UTF-16 or UCS-2 equivalent of the nth character
of the argument. If integer is not specified
then the CCSID of the result is determined by a mixed CCSID. Let M
denote that mixed CCSID.
In the following rules, S denotes one
of the following:
If the string expression is a host variable containing data in
a foreign encoding scheme, S is the result of the expression after
converting the data to a CCSID in a native encoding scheme. (See Character conversion for more information.)
If the string expression is data in a native encoding scheme,
S is that string expression.

M is determined as follows:
If the CCSID of S is 1208 (UTF-8), M is 1200 (UTF–16).
If the CCSID of S is a mixed CCSID, M is that CCSID.
If the CCSID of S is an SBCS CCSID: If the CCSID of S has an associated mixed CCSID, M is that CCSID.
Otherwise the operation is not allowed.

The following table summarizes the result CCSID based on M.
M
Result CCSID
Description
DBCS Substitution Character

930
300
Japanese EBCDIC
X'FEFE'

933
834
Korean EBCDIC
X'FEFE'

935
837
S-Chinese EBCDIC
X'FEFE'

937
835
T-Chinese EBCDIC
X'FEFE'

939
300
Japanese EBCDIC
X'FEFE'

5026
4396
Japanese EBCDIC
X'FEFE'

5035
4396
Japanese EBCDIC
X'FEFE'

The equivalence of SBCS and DBCS characters depends on
M. Regardless of the CCSID, every double-byte code point in the argument
is considered a DBCS character, and every single-byte code point in
the argument is considered an SBCS character with the exception of
the EBCDIC mixed data shift codes X'0E' and X'0F'.
If the nth character of the argument is a DBCS character, the
nth character of the result is that DBCS character.
If the nth character of the argument is an SBCS character that
has an equivalent DBCS character, the nth character of the result
is that equivalent DBCS character.
If the nth character of the argument is an SBCS character that
does not have an equivalent DBCS character, the nth character of the
result is the DBCS substitution character.

Graphic to Vargraphicgraphic-expression
An expression that returns a value that is a graphic string.
length
An integer constant that specifies the length attribute
of the result and must be an integer constant between 1 and 16370
if the first argument is not nullable or between 1 and 16369 if the
first argument is nullable. If the second argument is not specified,
or if DEFAULT is specified, the length attribute of the result is
the same as the length attribute of the first argument, except if
the expression is an empty string, the length attribute of the result
is 1.
The actual length of the result is the minimum of the
length attribute of the result and the actual length of graphic-expression.
Each character of the argument determines a character of the result.
If the length (in characters) of the graphic-expression is
greater than the length attribute of the result, truncation is performed.
A warning (SQLSTATE 01004) is returned unless the truncated characters
were all blanks.

integer
An integer constant that specifies the CCSID of the result.
It must be a DBCS, UTF-16, or UCS-2 CCSID. The CCSID cannot be 65535. If integer is
not specified then the CCSID of the result is the CCSID of the first
argument.

Datetime to Vargraphicdatetime-expression
An expression that is one of the following three built-in data
types date
The
result is the varying-length graphic string representation of the
date in the format specified by the second argument. If the second
argument is not specified, the format used is the default date format.
If the format is ISO, USA, EUR, or JIS, the length attribute and actual
length of the result is 10. Otherwise the length attribute and actual
length of the result is the length of the default date format. For
more information see String representations of datetime values.
time
The result is the varying-length graphic string representation
of the time in the format specified by the second argument. If the
second argument is not specified, the format used is the default time
format. The length attribute and actual length of the result is 8.
For more information see String representations of datetime values.
timestamp
The second argument is not applicable and must not be specified. The
result is the varying-length graphic string representation of the
timestamp. If datetime-expression is a TIMESTAMP(0),
the length attribute and actual length of the result is 19. If the
data type of datetime-expression is a TIMESTAMP(n),
the length attribute and actual length of the result is 20+n. Otherwise,
the length attribute and actual length of the result is 26.

The CCSID of the result is 1200 (UTF-16).
ISO, EUR, USA, or JIS
Specifies the date or time format of the resulting graphic string.
For more information, see String representations of datetime values.
LOCAL
Specifies that the date or time format of the resulting graphic
string should come from the DATFMT, DATSEP, TIMFMT, and TIMSEP attributes
of the job at the current server.

NoteSyntax alternatives: The CAST
specification should be used to increase the portability of applications
when the first argument is a string and the length attribute is specified.
For more information, see CAST specification.
ExampleUsing the EMPLOYEE table, set the host variable VAR_DESC (VARGRAPHIC(24))
to the VARGRAPHIC equivalent of the first name (FIRSTNME) for employee
number (EMPNO) '000050'.   SELECT VARGRAPHIC(FIRSTNME)
    INTO :VAR_DESC
    FROM EMPLOYEE
    WHERE EMPNO = '000050'

Parent topic: Scalar functions