Retrieve Configuration Status (RTVCFGSTS)

Retrieve Configuration Status (RTVCFGSTS)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: Compiled CL program or interpreted REXX (*BPGM *IPGM *BREXX *IREXX)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Retrieve Configuration Status (RTVCFGSTS) command provides a CL program with a numeric value that represents the status of a configuration object.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
CFGD | Configuration description | Name | Required, Positional 1
CFGTYPE | Type | *NWI, *NWS, *LIN, *CTL, *DEV | Required, Positional 2
STSCDE | CL variable for status code | Decimal number | Required, Positional 3

Top

Configuration description (CFGD)

Specifies the name of the configuration description for which the status will be retrieved.

This is a required parameter.

Top

Type (CFGTYPE)

Specifies the type of description for which you want to retrieve status.

*NWS
The object is a network server description.

*NWI
Status for a network interface is retrieved.

*LIN
Status for a line is retrieved.

*CTL
Status for a controller is retrieved.

*DEV
Status for a device is retrieved.

This is a required parameter.

Top

CL variable for status code (STSCDE)

Specifies the name of a variable which will contain the retrieved status. In a CL program, this should be a decimal variable of length (5 0).

The possible values which can be returned are:

Value
Definition

0
VARIED OFF - The system is not using the description.

10
VARY OFF PENDING - The description is being varied off. During this time the system may be taking down the tasks which managed the resource, and so on.

20
VARY ON PENDING - The description is being varied on. During this time the system may be putting tasks in place to manage the resource, downloading a program to an I/O processor, communicating with data circuit-terminating equipment (DCE), and so on.

30
VARIED ON - The tasks that manage the network interface, network server description, line, controller, or device have been put in place by the system, and the system has the capability to communicate with it.

32
VARY ON/CNN PENDING - The first of a pair of OptiConnect controllers is varied on but its attached device is not yet in a varied on state.

40
CONNECT PENDING - This status is only valid for switched SDLC, IDLC, BSC, or asynchronous lines. The line is in this status while waiting for the switched connection to be established; this can be either a dial or an answer connection.

50
SIGNON DISPLAY - This status is only valid for display devices. The system is preparing the device to receive the sign-on display, or sending the sign-on display, or the actual sign-on display is at the display station.

51
ACTIVE/CNN PENDING - The first of a pair of OptiConnect controllers and its attached device are varied on and waiting for the OptiConnect path to be established.

60
ACTIVE - The object is successfully placed in VARIED ON status. In addition: for network interfaces and the network server descriptions, one or more attached lines is in a VARY ON PENDING status or higher; for lines, one or more attached controllers is in a VARY ON PENDING status or higher; for controllers, one or more attached devices is in a VARY ON PENDING status or higher; for devices, active status varies depending on the type of device -- more information is in the Communications Configuration book, SC41-5401 book. A display device which is at a second sign-on display as a result of pressing the system request key will be considered ACTIVE.

63
ACTIVE READER - The device is in use by a spool reader.

66
ACTIVE WRITER - The device is in use by a spool writer.

67
AVAILABLE - The independent auxiliary storage pool (ASP) device is available for use without function restrictions.

70
HELD - This status is only valid for Device Descriptions. The user or the system held the communications device to prevent it from communicating. The Release Communications Device (RLSCMNDEV) command can be used to release the device.

80
RCYPND - Error recovery is pending for the line, controller, or device. A message indicating what error occurred appears on the QSYSOPR message queue.

90
RCYCNL - Error recovery is canceled for the network interface, line, controller, or device. An error occurred, and the operator replied with a C (to cancel error recovery) to a message, or the operator used a command (ENDNWIRCY, ENDLINRCY, ENDCTLRCY, ENDDEVRCY) to end error recovery.

95
SYSTEM REQUEST - The display device has been requested by the system and its associated job has been suspended. This occurs as a result of a user pressing the System Request key.

100
FAILED - An error occurred for the network interface, network server description, line, controller, or device that can be recovered only by varying off and on again.

103
FAILED READER - An error occurred for the device while in use by a spool reader.

106
FAILED WRITER - An error occurred for the device while in use by a spool writer.

107
SHUTDOWN - The NWSD was shut down using an Application Program Interface (API).

110
DIAGNOSTIC MODE - The network interface, network server description, line, controller, or device resource is being used by problem analysis procedures to diagnose problems, and the resource cannot be used by other users.

111
DAMAGED - The network interface, network server description, line, controller, or device description is damaged. This is a system error condition. Information indicating when this damage occurred appears in the history log (QHST). Further information may be in the vertical licensed internal code (VLIC) logs. The description must be deleted and created once more before it can be used again.

112
LOCKED - The actual status of the resource cannot be determined because another job has an exclusive lock on the description. Retry at a later time, or use the Work With Object Lock (WRKOBJLCK) command to determine which job has the lock on the description.

113
UNKNOWN - The status indicator of the description cannot be determined. This is a system error condition. Use the Dump Object (DMPOBJ) command to dump the contents or attributes of the description to a spooled printer file, and contact your IBM representative.

This is a required parameter.

More information is in the Communications Configuration book, SC41-5401.

Top

Examples

RTVCFGSTS CFGD(ND01) CFGTYPE(*LIN) STSCDE(&STSCODE)

This command retrieves the configuration status of the line configuration description ND01 for use in the CL variable &STSCODE.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF9801
Object &2 in library &3 not found.

CPF9802
Not authorized to object &2 in &3.

Top