SMALLINT

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

SMALLINT
The SMALLINT function returns a small integer representation.
Numeric to Smallint
SMALLINT(numeric-expression)
String to Smallint
SMALLINT(string-expression)
The SMALLINT function returns a small
integer representation of
A number
A character or graphic string representation of a decimal number
A character or graphic string representation of an integer
A character or graphic string representation of a floating-point
number
A character or graphic string representation of a decimal floating-point
number

Numeric to Smallintnumeric-expression
An expression that returns a numeric value of any built-in numeric
data type. The result is the same number that would occur if the
argument were assigned to a small integer column or variable. If the
whole part of the argument is not within the range of small integers,
an error is returned. The fractional part of the argument is truncated.

String to Smallintstring-expression
An expression that returns a value that is a character-string
or graphic-string representation of a number. If the argument is
a string-expression, the result is the same
number that would result from CAST( string-expression AS
SMALLINT). Leading and trailing blanks are eliminated and the resulting
string must conform to the rules for forming a floating-point, decimal
floating-point, integer, or decimal constant. If the whole part of
the argument is not within the range of small integers, an error is
returned. Any fractional part of the argument is truncated.

The result of the function is a small integer. If the
argument can be null, the result can be null. If the argument is null,
the result is the null value.
NoteSyntax alternatives: The CAST
specification should be used to increase the portability of applications.
For more information, see CAST specification.
ExampleUsing the EMPLOYEE table, select a list containing salary (SALARY)
divided by education level (EDLEVEL). Truncate any decimal in the
calculation. The list should also contain the values used in the calculation
and the employee number (EMPNO).   SELECT SMALLINT(SALARY / EDLEVEL), SALARY, EDLEVEL, EMPNO
    FROM EMPLOYEE

Parent topic: Scalar functions