Set step using JS (SETSTPJS)

Set step using JS (SETSTPJS)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Set Step using Job Scheduler (SETSTPJS) command display allows you to label steps in your application for logging purposes. For example, you may wish to set a step in your program at the start of a backup or when a backup completes. You can label the step "Backup beginning" or "Backup complete" and set LOG to *YES. This will output the text to the JS log once the step is reached.

If you want to see your steps for an application, you can view them in three places. These include:

IBM Advanced Job Scheduler for i for Wireless
Steps are displayed in the details for an active job. From the IBM Advanced Job Scheduler for i for Wireless Main Menu, select Jobs, then Active, and then the job whose steps you want to view. Select Details from the job options list. The details for the job are displayed. The step text is displayed next to Step.

DSPJOBJS
From the DSPJOBJS command, key option 5 next to the job whose steps you want to view. The details for the job are displayed. The step text is displayed next to Step.

System i Navigator
The step information for a job is displayed in the Job Properties dialog box. Right-click on a job and select Properties. Go to the Last Run tab. The step information is displayed next to Command step. This information also applies to Scheduled Job Activity.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
TEXT | Text | Character value, *NONE | Optional, Positional 1
LOG | Log | *YES, *NO | Optional

Top

Text (TEXT)

Specifies a text description for the step. This will also be sent to the Job Scheduler (JS) log if *YES if specified for the Log parameter.

*NONE
There is no text associated with this step.

character-value
Specify the text for the step. This text will also be displayed in the JS log, if the step is logged.

Top

Log (LOG)

Specifies if you want to send the step text to the Job Scheduler log.

*NO
You do not want to log the step.

*YES
You do want to log the step.

Top

Examples

None

Top

Error messages

Unknown

Top