Resume Controller Recovery (RSMCTLRCY)

Resume Controller Recovery (RSMCTLRCY)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Resume Controller Recovery (RSMCTLRCY) command resumes error recovery procedures for a specific controller. Error recovery procedures can be ended by using the End Controller Recovery (ENDCTLRCY) command or by responding to a failure-related inquiry message with a cancel option.

The Resume Controller Recovery (RSMCTLRCY) command allows you to resume automatic error recovery procedures after they have been stopped, and to reactivate a controller (and jobs using that controller) after it has been canceled. (if the C response was entered to the inquiry message associated with a controller failure). When the controller is canceled with the C response, all jobs are ended; once the controller is repaired and the RSMCTLRCY command is entered, jobs are allowed to start using the controller again.

Restriction: To use this command, the user must have object operational authority for the controller.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
CTL | Controller | Name | Required, Positional 1

Top

Controller (CTL)

Specifies the controller for which error recovery procedures are to resume. Valid types of controllers are:

CTL Value
Controller

5251
Display station

*PU2
Physical unit (type 2); SDLCs for basic BSC and RJE

*BSC
BSC device (basic BSC and RJE)

*BSCT
BSC device (Multipoint tributary and 3270 Device Emulation)

*APPC
Advanced program-to-program communications

*WSC
Local work station

*WSCE
Local work station (extended)

This is a required parameter.

Top

Examples

RSMCTLRCY CTL(TROLL3)

This command resumes error recovery procedures for the controller TROLL3.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF2703
Controller description &1 not found.

CPF5924
Controller &1 does not allow automatic error recovery.

CPF5928
Controller &1 not varied on.

CPF5929
Controller &1 assigned to another job.

CPF5930
Recovery not resumed for controller &1.

CPF5931
Recovery not resumed for controller &1.

CPF5935
Error occurred during command processing.

CPF5936
Not authorized to controller &1.

Top