WINDOW (Window) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

WINDOW (Window) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword to
specify that the record format you are defining will be displayed
using a window.

A window is information that overlays part of the display.
A window is typically smaller than the actual workstation display,
and can be positioned anywhere on the display.
The WINDOW keyword
has two formats that can be used. These formats do the following tasks:

Define a window by specifying the location and size of a window;
this is known as a window definition record.

Refer to a record format name where the window location and size
have been defined; this is known as a window-reference record.

The format for the keyword is specified as follows: WINDOW(start-line | &start-line-field start-position
| &start-position-field window-lines window-positions
[*MSGLIN | *NOMSGLIN])
[*RSTCSR | *NORSTCSR])
or
WINDOW(*DFT window-lines window-position
[*MSGLIN | *NOMSGLIN]
[*RSTCSR | *NORSTCSR])
Specify this format of the
WINDOW keyword to define a window. The record format you are defining
is displayed in this window. Up to 12 windows can be shown on the
display at one time. You can define more than 12 windows in DDS, but
only 12 can be displayed at the same time. However, if USRRSTDSP is
specified, the number of windows is unlimited. All fields defined
in this record must fit within the window.
The parameters specify
the following items:
The number or the name of a field containing the number of the
line that is to contain the upper-left corner of the window border.
If a field name is specified, the field must exist in the record format
and the field must be defined as a signed numeric (data type S) and
program-to-system (usage P) field with length no greater than 3.

The number or the name of a field containing the number of the
position that is to contain the upper-left corner of the window border.
If a field name is specified, the field must exist in the record format
and the field must be defined as a signed numeric (data type S) and
program-to-system (usage P) field with length no greater than 3.

The number of window-lines within the window. The window-lines
can be no more than the available lines for the display size minus
2. This is because the upper and lower window borders each occupy
one line. The last window-line in a window is used as the message
line and cannot contain any fields. For example, if a WINDOW keyword
is coded that specifies 10 window-lines for the window, only nine
of those lines can contain fields; the 10th line is the message line.

The number of window-positions within the window. The window-positions
can be no more than the available positions for the display size minus
4. This is because both right and left borders need an attribute byte
inside the window. An attribute byte exists between the border character
and the available window positions. For DBCS-capable windows, the
system might need an additional 2 bytes on each side of the window
for a shift-out character and shift-in character for any underlying
DBCS fields.

The MSGLIN parameter specifies if a window contains a message
line. If this parameter is not specified, the default is *MSGLIN.
*NOMSGLIN moves the message out of the window and places it at the
bottom of the display or where the MSGLOC keyword defines the location.
The last usable line in the window is reserved for error messages;
no records are displayed there. If the error message is longer than
the line, it is truncated to fit.

The *RSTCSR parameter specifies if the user should be allowed
limited function when the cursor is outside of the window. When *NORSTCSR
is specified and the cursor is outside of the window, the user will
be allowed to press a function key and have it function as if the
cursor were within the window. When the user specifies *RSTCSR on
a controller that supports enhanced interface for nonprogrammable
workstations, the user will be able to move the cursor out of the
window (except with a mouse). For other workstations, when the user
attempts to press a function key while the cursor is outside of the
window, the user will receive a beep and the cursor will be placed
inside the window. Control will not be returned to the application.
*RSTCSR is the default.

The special value, *DFT, specified in place of the start-line
and start-position parameters, indicates that the system will determine
the start line and start position of the window. The window is positioned
relative to the cursor location, similar to application help windows
with variable starting locations. More information about the rules
the system uses to position the window can be found in the Application Display Programming book.
The
second format for the WINDOW keyword is WINDOW(record-format-name).
Specify
this format of the WINDOW keyword to display the record format you
are defining in a window that is defined on another record format.
The
parameter specifies the record format name that has the window attributes
specified. The record format that uses this parameter is displayed
in the window defined on the referenced record.
The field locations
specified within a record format with the WINDOW keyword are relative
to the first usable window location in the upper-left corner of the
window. The first usable window location is on the first line below
the upper border and two positions to the right of the left border
(an ending attribute byte occupies the first byte to the right of
the border).
When a window is displayed, any records currently
on the display are suspended if USRRSTDSP is not specified. The suspended
records can be visible around the sides of the window. Input is allowed
only within the active window. To remove the window from the display,
a record can be written to an underlying window or a non-window record
must be overlaid on the display.
The WINDOW keyword is not allowed
on a record format that has any one of the following keywords specified:

ALWROL
ASSUME
MNUBAR

PULLDOWN
SFL
USRDFN

Note: The WINDOW keyword is allowed on a record with the SFLCTL
keyword. This allows subfiles to be displayed within a window.
WINDOW
cannot be specified for the record format specified by the PASSRCD
keyword.
The ERRSFL keyword is ignored for records that have
the WINDOW keyword specified.
The MSGLOC keyword is ignored
for records that have the WINDOW keyword specified, unless NOMSGLIN
is specified.
If a record format has both a WINDOW and WDWBORDER
keyword specified, specify the start-line, start-position, window-lines,
and window-positions parameters on the WINDOW keyword. The WINDOW
keyword should not specify the record-format-name parameter.
Option
indicators are not valid for this keyword. However, display size condition
names can be used.

Example 1The following example shows how
to specify the WINDOW keyword to define a window.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A R WINDOW1 WINDOW(4 20 9 30 *NORSTCSR)
A FIELD1 8A B 5 10
A FIELD2 10A B 6 10
A R WINDOW2 WINDOW(*DFT 9 30 *NOMSGLIN)
AWhen the WINDOW1 record is displayed, the upper-left
corner of the window border is on line 4 position 20 of the display.
The lower-right corner of the border is located 10 lines lower than
the upper border and 33 positions to the right of the left border.
Lower border line = upper border line + window-lines + 1

Right border position = left border position + window-positions
+ 3

The FIELD1 field starts 2 lines lower than the upper border
and 11 positions (the ending attribute byte for the border character
has been taken into account) to the right of the left border character
(line 6, position 31 on the display).
Actual field line = upper border line + line number of field

Actual field position = left border position + position of field
+ 1

The FIELD2 field starts 6 lines lower than the upper border
and 11 positions to the right of the left border (line 10, position
31 on the display).
If the cursor is moved outside of the window,
the function keys will remain active.
When the WINDOW 2 record
is displayed, the upper-left corner of the window border is at the
cursor position during run time. The message line does not appear
inside the window, it appears at the bottom of the display.
If
the cursor is moved outside of the window, the function keys are inactive.
If the user presses a function key, they will receive a beep and the
cursor will be place within the window.

Example 2The following example shows how
to use the WINDOW keyword to display multiple records in the same
window.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A R WINDOW1 WINDOW(&LINE &POS 9 30)
A USERID 8A O 2 10
A LINE 2S 0P
A POS 3S 0P
A
A R RECORD1 WINDOW(WINDOW1)
A OVERLAY
A FIELD1 5A B 7 2
A FIELD2 20A B 8 5
A
A R RECORD2 WINDOW(WINDOW1)
A FIELD3 10A B 2 2
A FIELD4 8A B 8 5
A FIELD4 8A B 8 5
AWhen the WINDOW1 record is displayed, the upper-left
corner of the border will be at the line and position numbers specified
by the LINE and POS fields. The lower-right corner of the border is
located 10 lines lower than the upper border and 33 positions to the
right of the left border.
The USERID field starts 2 lines lower
than the upper border and 11 positions to the right of the left border
character.
If RECORD1 (from the previous example) is displayed,
it is placed within WINDOW1. Its fields are positioned with respect
to the upper-left corner of the window. The fields from record WINDOW1
which were on the display remain because the OVERLAY keyword was used
on RECORD1 and the two records do not overlap.
If RECORD2 (from
the previous example) is displayed, it is also placed within WINDOW1.
Its fields are positioned with respect to the upper-left corner of
the window. Because the OVERLAY keyword was not used, the fields from
records WINDOW1 and RECORD1 are removed from the window.

Example 3The following example shows how
to use the WINDOW keyword with a subfile.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A R SFLDATA SFL
A NAME 20A B 4 5
A RANK 10A B 4 27
A SERIAL 8A B 4 38
A
A R WINDOW1 SFLCTL(SFLDATA)
A WINDOW(8 25 10 50)
A SFLPAG(4)
A SFLSIZ(17)
A SFLDSP
A SFLDSPCTL
A 2 5'Full Name'
A 2 27'Rank'
A 2 38'Serial Nbr'
AWhen the WINDOW1 subfile control record is displayed,
it and the subfile are displayed in a window. The upper-left corner
of the window border is at line 8, position 25 on the display. The
lower-right corner of the border is located on line 19, position 78.
The
fields from both the subfile record and subfile control record are
located with respect to the first usable window position in the upper-left
corner of the window. For example, the NAME field in the SFLDATA record
starts on the 4th window line and the 5th window position, which is
the same as the 12th line on the display and the 31st position on
the display.