COMMIT Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > Procedure Division Statements

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension
COMMIT Statement
The COMMIT statement provides a way of synchronizing changes to
data base records while preventing other jobs from modifying those
records until the COMMIT is performed. The format of the COMMIT statement
is:

COMMIT Statement - Format

>>-COMMIT------------------------------------------------------><

When the COMMIT statement is executed, all changes made to files
under commitment control, for the current commitment definition since
the previous commitment boundary, are made permanent. A commitment
boundary is established by the successful execution of a ROLLBACK
or COMMIT statement. If no COMMIT or ROLLBACK has been issued in
the current job, a commitment boundary is established by the first
OPEN of any file under commitment control in the job. Changes are
made to all files under commitment control, not just to files under
commitment control in the COBOL program that issues the COMMIT statement.
When a COMMIT is executed, all record locks held by the current
commitment definition since the last commitment boundary for files
under commitment control are released and the records become available.
Commitment control can be scoped at the job level or the activation
group level. Commitment control scopes to the activation group by
default. This is important when your application involves non-ILE COBOL programs that run
in a different activation group, such as a CL program.
The COMMIT statement only affects files under commitment control.
If a COMMIT is executed and there are no files opened under commitment
control, the COMMIT statement has no effect and no commitment boundary
is established.
The COMMIT statement does not: Modify the I-O-FEEDBACK area for any file
Change the file position indicator for any file
Set a file status value for any file.

For more information on commitment control, see the IBM® Rational® Development Studio
for i: ILE COBOL Programmer's Guide.

Parent topic: Procedure Division Statements

End of IBM Extension End of IBM Extension