Dump Main Memory Information (DMPMEMINF)

Dump Main Memory Information (DMPMEMINF)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Dump Main Memory Information (DMPMEMINF) command dumps information about pages of main memory to a file.

Note: It is recommended that this command be run in its own storage pool to avoid changing which main memory pages are resident in the storage pools being dumped.

Restrictions:

- This command is shipped with public *EXCLUDE authority.

- You will need to be authorized to the output file and library. Refer to Appendix D of the IBM i Security Reference, SC41-5302 for detailed authority requirements.

- To use this command, you must have service (*SERVICE) special authority, or be authorized to the Service Dump function of the operating system. The Change Function Usage (CHGFCNUSG) command with a function ID of QIBM_SERVICE_DUMP can be used to change the list of users that are allowed to perform dump operations.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
OUTFILE | File to receive output | Qualified object name | Required, Positional 1
Qualifier 1: File to receive output | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
OUTMBR | Output member options | Element list | Optional
Element 1: Member to receive output | Name, *FIRST
Element 2: Replace or add records | *REPLACE, *ADD
NBRPAGE | Number of pages | Unsigned integer, 10000, *ALL | Optional

Top

File to receive output (OUTFILE)

Specifies the library and database file to which the output of the command is directed. If the file does not exist, this command creates a database file in the specified library, using file QAPYDMPMEM in library QSYS as a model. If the file is created, the public authority for the file is the same as the create authority specified for the library in which the file is created. Use the Display Library Description (DSPLIBD) command to show the library's create authority.

This is a required parameter.

Qualifier 1: File to receive output

name
Specify the name of the database file to which the command output is directed.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
The library list is used to locate the file. If the file is not found, one is created in the current library. If no current library exists, the file will be created in the QGPL library.

*CURLIB
The current library for the thread is used to locate the file. If no library is specified as the current library for the thread, the QGPL library is used.

name
Specify the name of the library used to locate the output file.

Top

Output member options (OUTMBR)

Specifies the name of the database file member that receives the output of the command.

Element 1: Member to receive output

*FIRST
The first member in the file receives the output. If OUTMBR(*FIRST) is specified and the member does not exist, the system creates a member with the name of the file specified for the File to receive output (OUTFILE) parameter. If the member already exists, you have the option to add new records to the end of the existing member or clear the member and then add the new records.

name
Specify the name of the file member that receives the output. If it does not exist, the system creates it.

Element 2: Replace or add records

*REPLACE
The system clears the existing member and adds the new records.

*ADD
The system adds the new records to the end of the existing records.

Top

Number of pages (NBRPAGE)

Specifies the number of main memory pages for which information records will be written to the output file. A uniform distribution of main memory pages will be processed.

10000
Ten thousand main memory pages will have information written to the output file.

*ALL
All main memory pages will have information written to the output file.

unsigned-integer
Specify the number of main memory pages for which information is to be written to the output file.

Note: The actual number of pages processed may be smaller than the number specified due to pages not being accessible or dynamic changes to main memory size in a logical partition (LPAR).

Top

Examples

Example 1: Dump a Sample of Main Memory

DMPMEMINF OUTFILE(MYLIB/DMPMEM) OUTMBR(TEST1)
NBRPAGE(20000)

This command dumps information about a sample of up to twenty thousand main memory pages to file DMPMEM in library MYLIB. The records will be written to member TEST1.

Example 2: Dump All Main Memory Page Information

DMPMEMINF OUTFILE(MYLIB/DMPMEM) OUTMBR(TEST2)
NBRPAGE(*ALL)

This command dumps information about all available main memory pages to file DMPMEM in library MYLIB. The records will be written to member TEST2.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF9860
Error occurred during output file processing.

CPF98A2
Not authorized to &1 command or API.

Top