INZRCD (Initialize Record) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

INZRCD (Initialize Record) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword to specify
that if this record is not already on the display, it is to be written to
the display before an input operation is sent from the program that specifies
this record name.

If this record is already on the display, the keyword is ignored.
The performance of this implicit output operation is IBM® i program-initiated;
its only purpose is to format the display when an input operation is performed.
This
keyword has no parameters.
This keyword does not apply to output operations.
If
the INZRCD keyword is not specified, your program receives an error if it
tries to read a record that is not on the display.
When the INZRCD keyword
is processed, the following special conditions exist:
For output-only fields, no user data is available. The field appears on
the display as blanks. Any editing specified is ignored. The BLKFOLD keyword
does not affect the display.

For input/output fields, no user data is available. The field appears
on the display as blanks. The input save area is initialized in the same way
as uninitialized input-only fields (blanks or zeros, depending on the data
type).

Constants and input-only fields appear the same as when displayed using
an explicit output operation.

Hidden fields are returned on an input operation as blanks or zeros.

Message and program-to-system fields are ignored.

The LOGOUT keyword is ignored because there is no output buffer to log.

The ERRMSG and ERRMSGID keywords are ignored because the record format
is not already on the display.

The SFLMSG and SFLMSGID keywords are ignored.

All other optioned keywords and fields are processed as if they were optioned.

Note: In order for the INZRCD function to be performed, your program
must specify a record format name when issuing an input operation that contains
this keyword. The record format used for the input operation must specify
the INZRCD keyword.

Option indicators are not valid for this
keyword.

Example The following example shows how to specify
the INZRCD keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00274A R REC4 INZRCD
A