Resolution of Names

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > COBOL Language Structure > Data Reference and Name Scoping > Scope of Names > Scope of Names

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > COBOL Language Structure > Data Reference and Name Scoping > Scope of Names

Resolution of Names
When a program, program B, is directly or indirectly contained within another program, program A, both programs may define objects using the same user-defined word. (Objects include, for example, a condition-name, a data-name, a file-name, a record-name, a function name, or a type-name.) When such a duplicated name is referenced in program B, the following rules are used to determine the referenced object:
The referenced object is identified from the set of all names which are defined in program B and all global names defined in the directly containing program A and in any programs which directly or indirectly contain program A. Using this set of names, the normal rules for qualification and any other rules for uniqueness of reference are applied until one or more objects is identified.
If only one object is identified, it is the referenced object.
If more than one object is identified, no more than one of them can have a name local to program B unless each reference to them can be made unique with appropriate qualification. If zero or one of the objects has a name local to program B, the following rules apply:
If the name is declared in program B, the object in program B is the referenced object.
Otherwise, if program A is contained within another program, the referenced object is:
The object in program A if the name is declared in program A.
The object in the containing program if the name is not declared in program A and is declared in the program containing program A. This rule is applied to further containing programs until a single valid object has been found.

When the referenced object is a function, the function definition sometimes requires the programmer to specify a value or set of values for one or more arguments that determine the value of the function for that particular reference. The term function-identifier refers to the term used to reference an intrinsic function within the Procedure Division of a COBOL source program. The data item represented by a function is uniquely identified by a function-name with its arguments, if any.

Related Information:
Conventions for Program-Names

Parent topic: Scope of Names