End Cluster Resource Group (ENDCRG)

End Cluster Resource Group (ENDCRG)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: Yes | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The End Cluster Resource Group (ENDCRG) command disables resilience of the specified cluster resource group. The cluster resource group status is set to Inactive if the residency is ended on all nodes in the recovery domain. The resources associated with the cluster resource group are no longer resilient. That is, there is no failover or switchover action provided for these resources while the cluster resource group is ended.

Ending a device cluster resource group will not change the ownership of devices. The devices remain on whatever nodes owns them at the time the command is run. Also, the devices are not varied off when the cluster resource group is ended.

Ending a peer cluster resource group will end the access point for the cluster resources on all nodes defined as a peer node.

If an exit program is specified for the cluster resource group, it is called with an action code of End on each active node in the recovery domain. When the exit program is called, the cluster resource group status is set to End Pending. Successful completion of the exit program sets the cluster resource group status to Inactive. In addition, for an application cluster resource group:

- The current exit program job on the primary node will be cancelled with the *IMMED option.

- The takeover IP interface for the cluster resource group will be ended for the application cluster resource group.

If the exit program fails and the original state of the cluster resource group cannot be recovered, the cluster resource group status is set to Indoubt.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority to use this command.

- This command cannot be called from a CRG exit program.

- The node must have a status of Active in the cluster.

- The cluster resource group status must be either Active or Indoubt.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
CRG | Cluster resource group | Name | Required, Positional 1
EXITPGMDTA | Exit program data | Character value, *SAME | Optional
CLUSTER | Cluster | Name, * | Optional

Top

Cluster resource group (CRG)

Specifies the cluster resource group to be ended.

This is a required parameter.

name
Specify the name of the cluster resource group to end.

Top

Exit program data (EXITPGMDTA)

Specifies up to 256 bytes of data that is passed to the cluster resource group exit program when it is called. This parameter may contain any scalar data except pointers. For example, it can be used to provide state information. This data will be stored with the specified cluster resource group and copied to all nodes in the recovery domain. Pointers in this area will not resolve correctly on all nodes and should not be placed in the data. The data specified will replace the existing exit program data stored with the cluster resource group. If blanks are specified, then the exit program data stored with the cluster resource group will be cleared. This parameter must be set to *SAME if no exit program is specified for the cluster resource group.

*SAME
The exit program data stored with the cluster resource group specified will be passed to the exit program.

character-value
Specify the data that is to be passed to the exit program.

Top

Cluster (CLUSTER)

Specifies the name of the cluster.

*
The cluster that has been configured on this system is used.

name
Specify the name of the cluster.

Top

Examples for ENDCRG

ENDCRG CRG(MYCRG)
EXITPGMDTA('important information')

This command ends resiliency of the cluster resource group called MYCRG. When the cluster resource group exit program is called, it will be passed the exit program data 'important information' on all active nodes in the recovery domain.

Top

Error messages for ENDCRG

*ESCAPE Messages

HAE001C
Cluster resource group &1 not ended.

Top