Verify Image Catalog (VFYIMGCLG)

Verify Image Catalog (VFYIMGCLG)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Verify Image Catalog (VFYIMGCLG) command is used to verify the images in an image catalog based on the value specified in the TYPE parameter. The user can optionally sort the images in install sequence based also on the TYPE parameter.

A status message will be issued upon successful completion of the command. If the VFYIMGCLG command fails, the Work with Image Catalog Entries (WRKIMGCLGE) command can be used to look at the images and the status of each. The VFYIMGCLG command is intended for verifying images for a complete software upgrade, installation of a PTF, or other types of installs.

Restrictions:

- The following authorities are required to verify an image catalog:

Execute (*EXECUTE) authority to library QUSRSYS.

Use (*USE) authority to the image catalog.

Use (*USE) authority to the virtual device description.

Execute (*X) authority to each directory in the image catalog path name.

- This command is not supported for dependent image catalogs.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
IMGCLG | Image catalog | Name | Required, Positional 1
TYPE | Verify type | *UPGRADE, *PTF, *OPSYS, *LNG, *LIC, *OTHER | Optional
SORT | Sort image catalog | *NO, *YES | Optional
NFSSHR | Network file server share | *NO, *YES | Optional
LNG | Language | 2901-2999, *DFT | Optional

Top

Image catalog (IMGCLG)

Specifies the image catalog to be verified.

This is a required parameter.

name
Specify the name of the image catalog.

Top

Verify type (TYPE)

Specifies the type of image catalog to be verified.

*UPGRADE
The optical image catalog to be verified is for a complete software upgrade. The system will verify that the necessary images for a software upgrade exist and can be loaded into the virtual optical device. The following list shows the optical images in order for IBM i:

- Licensed Internal Code (Required)

- Operating system (Required)

- Library QGPL (Required)

- Library QUSRSYS (Required)

- No-charge options

- No-charge (bonus) licensed programs and options

- Keyed set products

- Single products

- Secondary languages

- Program temporary fixes

The following list shows the required tape images in order for IBM i:

- Licensed Internal Code

- Operating system

- Library QGPL

- Library QUSRSYS

*LIC
The image catalog to be verified is for an install of the Licensed Internal Code only. The system will verify that the Licensed Internal Code image exists and can be loaded into the virtual optical device.

*LNG
The image catalog to be verified is for a change primary language install. The language used will be based on the value specified for the Language (LNG) parameter. The following list shows the minimum optical images required to change the primary langauge:

- Operating system (Required)

- Library QGPL (Required)

- Library QUSRSYS (Required)

*OPSYS
The optical image catalog to be verified is for an install of the operating system only. The installation of licensed internal code will be skipped. The following list shows the minimum optical images required to install the operating system only.

- Operating system (Required)

- Library QGPL (Required)

- Library QUSRSYS (Required)

*PTF
The optical image catalog to be verified is for a PTF install. The system will verify all PTF volume sets are complete and can be loaded into the virtual device. All non-PTF volumes will be unloaded. This value is only supported for optical image catalogs.

*OTHER
The image catalog to be verified is not for a specific type of install. This option will load the images from the image catalog in the order they exist. There will be no verification or sorting of images.

Top

Sort image catalog (SORT)

Specifies whether the images of this type should be sorted in the order required for a software upgrade or PTF install. If TYPE(*OTHER) is specified, the images in the image catalog are not sorted.

*NO
The images in the image catalog are not sorted based on the value specified for the TYPE parameter.

*YES
The images in the image catalog are sorted based on the value specified for the TYPE parameter.

Top

Network file server share (NFSSHR)

Specifies whether the images in the image catalog are prepared for use by a network file server. This option is only valid for optical image catalogs.

*NO
The images in the image catalog and directory are not prepared for use as a network file server (NFS) share.

*YES
The images in the image catalog and directory are prepared for use as a network file server (NFS) share. In addition, a VOLUME_LIST file in ASCII format will be created in the image catalog directory. This file will contain a list of image files to be used by a virtual device of type 632B-003.

Top

Language (LNG)

Specifies the language to use for the verification of the image catalog. This parameter is only valid if *UPGRADE or *LNG is specified for the Verify type (TYPE) parameter.

*DFT
If the install media contains only a single national language version (NLV), that language version is used. If the install media contains multiple NLVs, the current primary language for the system will be selected.

2901-2999
Specify the NLV identifier to be used for verification of the image catalog when *UPGRADE or *LNG is specified for the Verify type (TYPE) parameter. More information on feature identifications and a list of IBM-supplied feature codes is in the Installing, upgrading, or deleting IBM i and related software book, SC41-5120.
Note: If performing an auto install and the language specified is different than the the current primary language, the QINSTLNG API should be used prior to installing to allow the specified language to be set as your new primary language.

For example, to have language 2962 set as the primary language during installation, first perform the following program call.

CALL PGM(QINSTLNG) PARM('2962')

For more information, see the Set Install Language Version (NLV) QINSLNG API in the information center.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Verify Image Catalog for a Software Upgrade

VFYIMGCLG IMGCLG(MYCLG) TYPE(*UPGRADE) SORT(*YES) LNG(2924)

This command verifies that image catalog MYCLG contains the necessary files for a software upgrade using NLV 2924 and checks for any needed license agreements. If the necessary image files exist, the images will be sorted in the order required for a software upgrade.

Example 2: Verify Image Catalog for Applying PTFs

VFYIMGCLG IMGCLG(MYCLG) TYPE(*PTF)

This command verifies that all required cumulative PTF volumes in image catalog MYCLG are available. No sorting of the images will occur.

Example 3: Verify Image Catalog for Sharing with a Network File Server

VFYIMGCLG IMGCLG(MYCLG) TYPE(*PTF) SORT(*YES) NFSSHR(*YES)

This command verifies that image catalog MYCLG contains the necessary files for loading and applying Program Temporary Fixes (PTF). If the necessary image files exist, the images will be sorted in the order required for a PTF load and apply. The image catalog directory will be setup for use by a network file server.

Example 4: Verify Image Catalog for Change Primary Language

VFYIMGCLG IMGCLG(MYCLG) TYPE(*LNG) SORT(*YES) LNG(2924)

This command verifies that image catalog MYCLG contains the necessary files for changing the primary language. If the necessary image files exist, the images will be sorted in the order required for the install.

Example 5: Verify Image Catalog for a Licensed Internal Code Install.

VFYIMGCLG IMGCLG(MYCLG) TYPE(*LIC) SORT(*YES)

This command verifies that image catalog MYCLG contains the necessary files to install only Licensed Internal Code. If the necessary image files exist, the images will be sorted in the order required for the install.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPFBC20
Verification for image catalog &1 failed.

CPFBC45
Image catalog &1 not found.

CPF9802
Not authorized to object &2 in &3.

CPF9820
Not authorized to use library &1.

Top