Start Cluster Node (STRCLUNOD)

Start Cluster Node (STRCLUNOD)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: Yes | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Start Cluster Node (STRCLUNOD) command is used to start Cluster Resource Services on a node in the cluster. If Cluster Resource Services is successfully started on the node specified, the status of the node will be set to Active.

As part of starting the node, Cluster Resource Services checks the allow add to cluster (ALWADDCLU) network attribute to see whether the node being started should be part of the cluster and whether to validate the cluster request through the use of X.509 digital certificates. If validation is required, the requesting node and the node being added must have the following installed on the systems:

- Operating System option 34 (Digital Certificate Manager)

- Cryptographic Access Provider Product (AC2 or AC3)

If the cluster is partitioned, this command may be used to start nodes in the partition running this command.

The potential node version of the node being started must be equal to the current cluster version or up to one level higher than the current cluster version. The potential node version and the current cluster version can be retrieved by using the Display Cluster Information (DSPCLUINF) command.

If the node being started is in a device domain, then Operating System option 41, HA Switchable Resources, must be installed and a valid license key must exist on that node.

If the node being started has cluster monitors configured, the CIM server for each monitor will be contacted. The CIM server then knows that it should be monitoring for system or logical partition failures and notifying the cluster monitor node. The cluster node will be started even if some error occurs while trying to contact the CIM server. If contact of the CIM server fails, one can use the Change Cluster Monitor (CHGCLUMON) command to cause Cluster Resource Services to attempt contact again. See the Change Cluster Monitor command for details.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority on all nodes in the cluster to run this command.

- This command cannot be called from a cluster resource group exit program.

- The node being started must exist in the cluster membership list.

- If all nodes have a status of New, this command must be invoked on the node on which the cluster was originally created.

- The node to be started must be IP reachable (TCP/IP is active and the INETD server is started).

- The first time a node is started, this command must be invoked on a node that is active.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
NODE | Node identifier | Name, *ALL, * | Optional, Positional 1
CLUSTER | Cluster | Name, * | Optional

Top

Node identifier (NODE)

Specifies the node identifier to be started.

*ALL
Start all the nodes in the cluster.

*
Start clustering on the local node.

name
Specify the node to be started.

Top

Cluster (CLUSTER)

Specifies the name of the cluster.

*
The cluster that has been configured on this system is used.

name
Specify the name of the cluster.

Top

Examples for STRCLUNOD

Example 1: Start clustering on the local node.

STRCLUNOD NODE(*)

This command starts Cluster Resource Services on the local node for the cluster that has been configured on this system.

Example 2: Start a specific node in the cluster.

STRCLUNOD NODE(NODE01)

This command starts Cluster Resource Services on node NODE01 for the cluster that has been configured on this system.

Example 3: Start all nodes in the cluster.

STRCLUNOD

This command starts Cluster Resource Services on all nodes for the cluster that has been configured on this system.

Top

Error messages for STRCLUNOD

*ESCAPE Messages

HAE000F
Cluster node &1 in cluster &2 not started.

HAE002B
&1 command failed.

Top