Defining a qualified name

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands > Defining lists for parameters > Defining lists for parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands > Defining lists for parameters

Defining a qualified name
A qualified name is the name of an object preceded by the name
of the library in which the object is stored.
If a parameter value or list item is a qualified name, you must
define the name separately using Qualifier (QUAL) statements. Each part of
the qualified name must be defined with a QUAL statement. The parts of a qualified
name must be described in the order in which they occur in the qualified name.
You must specify *NAME or *GENERIC in the first QUAL statement. The associated
PARM or ELEM statement must identify the label that refers to the first QUAL
statement for the qualified name.
The following command definition statements
define the most common qualified name. A qualified object consists of the
library name that contains an object followed by the name of the object itself.
The QUAL statements must appear in the order in which they are to occur in
the qualified name.
Many of the parameters that can be specified
for the QUAL statement are the same as those described for the PARM statement.
However, only the following values can be specified for the TYPE parameter:

*NAME
*GENERIC
*CHAR
*INT2
*INT4

When a qualified name is passed to the command processing program,
the format varies depending on whether you are using CL or high-level language
(HLL), or REXX.

Using CL or other HLLs for a qualified name
A qualified name is passed to the command processing program in
this format when you use CL or another high-level language (HLL).
Using REXX for a qualified name
When a command is run using REXX, a qualified name is passed to the
command processing program just as the value is entered for the parameter.
Trailing blanks are not passed.

Parent topic: Defining lists for parameters

Related tasks
Defining parameters