SRTSEQ(a)

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Appendixes > Appendix G. PROCESS Statement > option-1 > option-1

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Appendixes > Appendix G. PROCESS Statement > option-1

SRTSEQ(a)
SRTSEQ specifies the sort sequence used when NLSSORT
is associated with an alphabet-name in the ALPHABET clause. The SRTSEQ option
is used in conjunction with the LANGID option to determine which system-defined
or user-defined sort sequence table the module will use. SRTSEQ takes the
form:
SRTSEQ(a)

Where a is HEX, JOB, JOBRUN, LANGIDUNQ, LANGIDSHR, "table-name", or "library-name/table-name".
HEX indicates that no sort sequence table
will be used, and the hexadecimal values of the characters will be used to
determine the sort sequence. HEX is the default value.
JOB indicates that the sort sequence of the module
will be resolved and associated with the module at compile time. The sort
sequence table must exist in the system at compile time.
JOBRUN indicates that the sort sequence of the program
will be resolved and associated with the module at run time. At compile time,
the compiler will associate the sort sequence of the compile job with the
module. At run time, this sort sequence will be replaced by the sort sequence
associated with the job at run time. This value allows a module to be compiled
once and used with different sort sequences at run time.
LANGIDUNQ indicates that the sort sequence table
being used must contain a unique weight for each character in the code page.
The sort sequence table used will be the unique weighted table associated
with the language specified in the LANGID option.
LANGIDSHR indicates that the sort sequence table
being used can contain the same weight for multiple characters in the code
page. The sort sequence table used will be the shared weighted table associated
with the language specified in the LANGID option.
"table-name" or "library-name/table-name" indicates the name of the sort sequence table
to be used. The table contains weights for all characters in a given code
page. A weight is associated with the character that is defined at the code
point. The library is specified as LIBL, CURLIB, or library-name.
LIBL indicates that the library list is searched
to find the library where the source file is located. LIBL is the default
value.
CURLIB indicates that the current library is used.
If you have not assigned a library as the current library, QTEMP is used.
library-name indicates the name of the library
where the sort sequence table is found.

Parent topic: option-1