Datetime assignments

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Assignments and comparisons > Assignments and comparisons

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Assignments and comparisons

Datetime assignments
A value that is assigned to a date, time, or
timestamp column or variable must be a date, time, or timestamp or
a valid string representation of a date, a time, or a timestamp.
A value assigned to a DATE column or a DATE variable must
be a date or timestamp or a valid string representation
of a date or timestamp. When
a timestamp value is assigned to a DATE data type, the date portion
is extracted and the time portion is ignored. A date can be assigned
only to a DATE or TIMESTAMP column, a string
column, a DATE or TIMESTAMP variable, or a string
variable.
A value assigned to a TIME column or a TIME variable
must be a time or timestamp or a valid string
representation of a time or timestamp. When a timestamp value is assigned to a TIME data type,
the date portion is ignored and the time portion is extracted with
the fractional seconds truncated. A time can be assigned only
to a TIME column, a string column, a TIME variable, or a string variable.
A
value assigned to a TIMESTAMP column or a TIMESTAMP variable must
be a date or timestamp or a valid string representation
of a date or timestamp. If a string representation
of a date or timestamp is used, it is implicitly
cast to a timestamp with the same precision as the target timestamp. When a date value is assigned to a TIMESTAMP data type,
the missing time information is assumed to be all zeros. A timestamp
can be assigned to a DATE, TIME, or TIMESTAMP
column, a string column, a DATE, TIME, or TIMESTAMP
variable, or a string variable. When a timestamp value is assigned
to a timestamp with lower precision, the excess fractional seconds
are truncated. When a timestamp value is assigned to a timestamp with
higher precision, missing digits are assumed to be zeros.
When a datetime value is assigned to a string variable
or column, it is converted to its string representation. Leading zeros
are not omitted from any part of the date, time, or timestamp. The
required length of the target varies depending on the format of the
string representation. If the length of the target is greater than
required, it is padded on the right with blanks. If the length of
the target is less than required, the result depends on the type of
datetime value involved and on the type of target.
If the target is a string column, truncation is not allowed. The
following rules apply: DATE
The length attribute of the column must be at least 10 if the
date format is *ISO, USA, *EUR, or *JIS. If the date format is *YMD,
*MDY, or *DMY, the length attribute of the column must be at least
8. If the date format is *JUL, the length of the variable must be
at least 6.

TIME
The length attribute of the column must be at least 8.

TIMESTAMP
The length attribute of the column must be at least
19 for TIMESTAMP(0) and 20+p for TIMESTAMP(p).

When the target is a variable, the following rules apply: DATE
The length of the variable must be at least 10 if the date format
is *ISO, *USA, *EUR, or *JIS. If the date format is *YMD, *MDY, or
*DMY, the length of the variable must be at least 8. If the date
format is *JUL, the length of the variable must be at least 6.

TIME
If the *USA format is used, the length of the variable must not
be less than 8. This format does not include seconds.
If the *ISO, *EUR, *JIS, or *HMS time format is used, the length
of the variable must not be less than 5. If the length is 5, 6, or
7, the seconds part of the time is omitted from the result, and SQLWARN1
is set to 'W'. In this case, the seconds part of the time is assigned
to the indicator variable if one is provided, and, if the length is
6 or 7, blank padding occurs so that the value is a valid string representation
of a time.

TIMESTAMP
The length of the variable must not be less than 19. If
the length is between 19 and 31, the timestamp is truncated like a
string, causing the omission of one or more digits of fractional seconds. If
the length is 20, the trailing decimal point is replaced by a blank
so that the value is a valid string representation of a timestamp
with a precision of 0.

Parent topic: Assignments and comparisons