CHRID (Character Identifier) keyword in printer files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

CHRID (Character Identifier) keyword in printer files

You use this field-level keyword to specify
that a graphic character set and code page other than the device default
can be used for this field.

This can be important when extended alphabetics (characters such
as u with an umlaut or c with a cedilla) are to be printed.

This keyword has no parameters.

If you do not specify CHRID for a field, data printed in that field
is printed in the character set of the printer device. How the data
is printed depends on how code points used in the original code page
correspond to the code page used on the device. For example, a slash
(/) can be printed as a blank, because X'51' is an empty
code point in the basic U.S. character set.

The CHRID keyword is not valid on constant fields or numeric fields
(fields with decimal positions specified in positions 36 through 37).

The CHRID keyword is ignored for fields in printer files that specify
*JOBCCSID for the CHRID parameter on the Create Printer File (CRTPRTF),
Change Printer File (CHGPRTF), or Override Printer File (OVRPRTF)
commands. All printer data is assumed to be in the CCSID of the current
job for these printer files.

In SCS printer files (DEVTYPE(*SCS) on the CRTPRTF command), you
cannot specify CHRID on the same field as the TRNSPY keyword. In IPDS printer
files (DEVTYPE(*IPDS) on the CRTPRTF command), you can specify CHRID
on the same field as the TRNSPY keyword. However, a warning message
results in stating that the DEVTYPE should not be changed to *SCS.

For printer files created with DEVTYPE(*AFPDS), CHRID applies only
to files that use registered font IDs. If the file uses downloaded
coded fonts or character set/code pages, the keyword is ignored and
a message is issued. See the IBM® Infoprint Fonts: Font Summary book
for a listing of font IDs.

If the DFNCHR keyword is specified for a record format, the CHRID
keyword cannot be specified in that record format. If the DFNCHR keyword
is specified at the file level, CHRID cannot be specified in that
file.

Option indicators are not valid for this keyword. However, option
indicators can be used to condition the field associated with this
keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how
to specify the CHRID keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R RECORD1
00020A TITLE 40 1 20CHRID
AThe field TITLE is a named field. With CHRID
specified, the printer attempts to print the appropriate characters.