assignment-statement

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > SQL control statements > SQL control statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > SQL control statements

assignment-statement
The assignment-statement assigns a value to an SQL
parameter or SQL variable.
Syntaxlabel:SETassignment-clause
assignment-clause:
,SQL-parameter-nameSQL-variable-nameglobal-variable = expressionNULLDEFAULT(,SQL-parameter-nameSQL-variable-name) = (,expressionNULLDEFAULT)row-fullselectarray-variable-name[array-index] = expressionNULLarray-variable-name = array-constructorTRIM_ARRAY functionarray-variable-nameNULLrow-fullselectWITHRECURSIVE,common-table-expressionfullselect
Descriptionlabel
Specifies the label for the assignment-statement statement.
The label name cannot be the same as the routine name or another label
within the same scope. For more information, see References to SQL labels.
SQL-parameter-name
Identifies the SQL parameter that is the assignment target. The
SQL parameter must be specified in parameter-declaration in
the CREATE PROCEDURE or CREATE FUNCTION statement.
SQL-variable-name
Identifies the SQL variable that is the assignment target. SQL
variables can only be declared in a compound-statement or be
a transition variable.
global-variable
Identifies the global variable that is the assignment target.
expression or NULL
Specifies the expression or value that is the source for the assignment.
DEFAULT
Specifies that the default value for the column associated with
the transition variable will be used. This can only be specified for a global variable and in SQL triggers for transition
variables. Only one global variable can be assigned
in the SET statement when DEFAULT is used.
row-fullselect
A fullselect that returns a single result row. The result column
values are assigned to the corresponding SQL variable or parameter.
If the result of the fullselect is no rows, then null values are assigned.
An error is returned if there is more than one row in the result.
WITH common-table-expression
Specifies a common table expression. For an explanation of common
table expression, see common-table-expression.
fullselect
A fullselect that
returns a single result row. The result column values are assigned
to each corresponding variable. If the result
of the fullselect is no rows, then null
values are assigned. An error is returned if there is more than one
row in the result.
array-variable-name
Identifies an SQL variable or parameter. The variable or parameter
must be of an array type.[array-index]
Numeric expression that specifies which element in the array will
be the target of the assignment. The array index must
be of an exact numeric type with zero scale; it cannot be null. Its
value must be between 1 and the maximum cardinality defined for the
array.

array-constructor
Specifies the value of an array constructor. See ARRAY constructor.
TRIM_ARRAY function
Specifies the TRIM_ARRAY scalar function. See TRIM_ARRAY.

NotesAssignment
rules: Assignments in the assignment statement must conform to
the SQL retrieval assignment rules as described in Assignments and comparisons.1
If the
assignment is of the form SET A[idx] = rhs, where A is
an array variable name, idx is an expression used as the array index, and rhs is an expression of a
compatible type as the array element, then:If array A is the null value, set A to the empty
array.
Let C be the cardinality of array A.
If idx is less than or equal to C, the value in
the position identified by idx is replaced by the value of rhs.
If idx is greater than C, then:The value in position i, for i greater than C and
less that idx, is set to the null value.
The value in position idx is set to the value of rhs.
The cardinality of A is set to idx.

Assignments involving SQL parameters: An IN parameter
can appear on the left or right side of an assignment-statement.
When control returns to the caller, the original value of the IN parameter
is retained. An OUT parameter can also appear on the left or right
side of an assignment-statement. If used without first being
assigned a value, the value is null. When control returns to the caller,
the last value that is assigned to an OUT parameter is returned to
the caller. For an INOUT parameter, the first value of the parameter
is determined by the caller, and the last value that is assigned to
the parameter is returned to the caller.
Multiple SQL parameter or SQL variable
assignments: If more than one SQL parameter or SQL variable
is specified as the target of the assignment-statement, the
targets of the assignment-statement are completely evaluated
before the assignments are performed. Thus, references to an SQL parameter
or SQL variable in a target expression is always the value of the
SQL parameter or SQL variable prior to any assignment.
Arrays: If an assignment is to an array
or array element, only one assignment is allowed in the statement.
Special Registers: If a variable has been declared
with an identifier that matches the name of a special register (such
as PATH), then the variable must be delimited to distinguish it from
assignment to the special register (for example, SET "PATH" = 1; for
a variable called PATH declared as an integer).
Considerations for SQLSTATE and SQLCODE variables: Assignment
to these variables is not prohibited; however, it is not recommended
as assignment does not affect the diagnostics area or result in the
activation of condition handlers. The SQLCODE and SQLSTATE will be
reset and the diagnostics area or SQLCA initialized for each assignment-statement other
than assignment-statements that: assign the SQLSTATE or SQLCODE variable to another variable or
set a constant value into the SQLSTATE or SQLCODE variable.

ExampleExample 1: Increase the SQL
variable p_salary by 10 percent.
SET p_salary = p_salary + (p_salary * .10)

Example 2: Set SQL variable p_salary to
the null value
SET p_salary = NULL

Example 3: Set the SQL array variable p_phonenumbers to
an array of fixed numbers.
SET p_phonenumbers = ARRAY[9055553907, 4165554213, 4085553678]

Example 4: Set the SQL array variable p_phonenumbers to
an array of numbers retrieved from the PHONENUMBER table.
SET p_phonenumbers = ARRAY
[SELECT NUMBER FROM PHONENUMBERS
WHERE EMPID = 624]

Example 5:Assign p_mynumber to
the first and tenth elements of the SQL array variable p_phonenumbers.
After the first assignment, the cardinality of p_phonenumbers is
1. After the second assignment, the cardinality is 10, and elements
2 to 9 have been implicitly assigned the null value.
SET p_phonenumbers[1] = p_mynumber

SET p_phonenumbers[10] = p_mynumber

Parent topic: SQL control statements

1 If assigning to an SQL-variable
or SQL-parameter and the standards option is specified, storage assignment
rules apply. For information about the standards option, see Standards compliance.