Specifying COMP at the select/omit-field level

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Keyword entries for physical and logical files (positions 45 through 80) > COMP (Comparison) keyword for physical and logical files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Keyword entries for physical and logical files (positions 45 through 80) > COMP (Comparison) keyword for physical and logical files

Specifying COMP at the select/omit-field level

At the select/omit-field level, you can specify a field name, a
value, or *NULL for the parameter.

If the select/omit field is a binary character field, the field-name parameter
must also be a binary character field. The comparisons for binary character
select/omit fields also need to take the actual lengths of the operands into
consideration. The operands will only compare as equal if the actual lengths
of the operands are equal. Shorter operands will be considered less than the
longer operands when they are equal up to the length of the shorter operand.

If you specify a value, the following rules apply:
If you are defining a character field, specify a character
constant or a hexadecimal character string. Specify character strings
with single quotation marks. See Example 1 in COMP (Comparison) keyword for
physical and logical files.
Specify hexadecimal character strings as
an X followed by a combination of the digits 0 through 9 and the letters A
through F, enclosed in single quotation marks ('). The number of hexadecimal
digits in single quotation marks must be exactly twice the specified length
of the field. See Example 2 in COMP (Comparison) keyword for physical and
logical files.

If you are defining a numeric field, specify a numeric string
(digits 0 through 9 specified without single quotation marks).

If you are defining a date field, specify a valid date in the same format
specified on the DATFMT keyword and use the same separator as specified on
the DATSEP keyword.For example, COMP(EQ '12/15/05') is
the default value if *MDY is specified for DATFMT and '/' is specified for
DATSEP.

If you are defining a time field, specify a valid time in the same format
specified on the TIMFMT keyword and use the same separator as specified on
the TIMSEP keyword.For example, COMP(EQ '11.00.00') is
the default value if *ISO is specified for TIMFMT. The default separator for
*ISO is a period (.).

If you are defining a timestamp field, you must specify the default value
in the following format: COMP(EQ 'YYYY-MM-DD-HH.MM.SS.UUUUUU')

If you specify *NULL, the relational operator must be EQ or NE.

COMP selects or omits records retrieved from the physical file on which
this logical file is based when your program sends an input operation to the
record format you are defining. The operating system selects or omits records
as a result of testing the value of the select/omit fields against the value
you specify, the value of the field whose name you specify, or the null value
(if *NULL was specified).