REAL

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

REAL
The REAL function returns a single-precision floating-point
representation.
Numeric to Real
REAL(numeric-expression)
String to Real
REAL(string-expression)
The REAL function returns a single-precision
floating-point representation of:
A number
A character or graphic string representation of a decimal number
A character or graphic string representation of an integer
A character or graphic string representation of a floating-point
number
A character or graphic string representation of a decimal floating-point
number

Numeric to Real numeric-expression
The argument is an expression that returns a value of any built-in
numeric data type. The result is the same number that would occur
if the argument were assigned to a single-precision floating-point
column or variable. If the numeric value of the argument is not within
the range of single-precision floating-point, an error is returned.

String to Realstring-expression
An expression that returns a value that is a character-string
or graphic-string representation of a number. If the argument is
a string-expression, the result is the same
number that would result from CAST( string-expression AS
REAL). Leading and trailing blanks are eliminated and the resulting
string must conform to the rules for forming a floating-point, decimal
floating-point, integer, or decimal constant. If the numeric value
of the argument is not within the range of single-precision floating-point,
an error is returned.
The single-byte character constant that
must be used to delimit the decimal digits in string-expression from
the whole part of the number is the default decimal point. For more
information, see Decimal point.

The result of the function is a single-precision floating-point
number. If the argument can be null, the result can be null; if the
argument is null, the result is the null value.
NoteSyntax alternatives: The CAST
specification should be used to increase the portability of applications.
For more information, see CAST specification.
ExampleUsing the EMPLOYEE table, find the ratio of salary to commission
for employees whose commission is not zero. The columns involved (SALARY
and COMM) have DECIMAL data types. To eliminate the possibility of
out-of-range results, REAL is applied to SALARY so that the division
is carried out in floating point:   SELECT EMPNO, REAL(SALARY)/COMM
    FROM EMPLOYEE
    WHERE COMM > 0

Parent topic: Scalar functions