SFLMSGRCD (Subfile Message Record) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

SFLMSGRCD (Subfile Message Record) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword on the subfile
record format to specify that this subfile is to be a message subfile and
that the records displayed when the subfile is displayed are messages
from a program message queue.

The format of the keyword is: SFLMSGRCD(line-number)
The
parameter value specified with SFLMSGRCD specifies the first line on the display
on which messages are displayed. The value specified must not be greater than
the maximum line number for the display size being used. The number of messages
displayed depends on the SFLPAG value specified for the subfile.
For
more information about building and displaying message subfiles, see SFLPGMQ (Subfile Program Message Queue) keyword for display files.
The TEXT keyword is valid at the
record-level for SFLMSGRCD.
There can be only two predefined fields
specified on the subfile record format for a message subfile as follows:
Message identifier. A 4-position, character data type, hidden field. Your
program uses this field to pass a message identifier to the IBM® i operating
system. This field must always be the first field defined in the message subfile.
You must specify the SFLMSGKEY keyword with this field.

Program queue name. A 10-position, character data type, hidden field.
Your program passes the name of the program message queue that contains the
messages in this field. It must be the second field of a subfile message record
and must immediately follow the first field. If specified also on the subfile
control record, it can be anywhere within the record specification. You must
specify SFLPGMQ with this field.

Display size condition names can be specified for SFLMSGRCD and
are required if the line number for the first message displayed is to change,
based on display size.
Data is not returned in your input buffer if
your program does an input operation for a message subfile.
The messages
are displayed as follows:
Each message is displayed on a separate line and is truncated if it is
longer than the display line length.

Each message starts in position 2. The maximum message length for the
24 x 80 display size is 76 characters. The maximum message length for the
27 x 132 display size is 128 characters.

Each message is displayed with the high intensity (HI) field attribute.

When a message subfile is paged through the IBM i operating
system, the cursor is positioned at the same location as it was when the Page
key was pressed.
Message help is supported for these messages. The workstation
user chooses which message help is to be displayed by placing the cursor on
the line containing the message and pressing the Help key. Notes:
When SFLMSGRCD is specified, you cannot specify the SFLINZ keyword without
specifying SFLPGMQ.

The message subfile, starting on the line specified on SFLMSGRCD, must
not overlap any displayable fields in the subfile control record, even if
option indicators are specified on the displayable fields.

Option indicators are not valid for this keyword; display
size condition names are valid.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the SFLMSGRCD keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00030A R RCDMSG SFL SFLMSGRCD(3)
00040A FLDKEY SFLMSGKEY
00050A FLDPGM SFLPGMQ
00060A R SFLCTL SFLCTL(RCDMSG)
00070A SFLPAG(17)
00080A SFLSIZ(17)
00090A SFLDSP SFLDSPCTL
AThe highlighted keywords are required on the subfile
record format for a message subfile. The SFLMSGKEY and SFLPGMQ keywords must
be specified in the order shown.