IN predicate

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Predicates > Predicates

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Predicates

IN predicate
The IN predicate compares a value or values with a set
of values.
expression1NOTIN(fullselect1)(,expression2)expression3row-value-expressionNOTIN(fullselect2)
When expression1 is specified, the IN predicate
compares a value with a set of values. When fullselect1 is
specified, the fullselect must return a single result column, and
can return any number of values, whether null or not null. The data
type of expression1 and the data type of the result column
of the fullselect1, expression2, or expression3 must
be compatible. Each variable must identify a structure or variable
that is described in accordance with the rule for declaring host structures
or variables.
When a row-value-expression is specified, the IN
predicate compares values with a collection of values.
SELECT * is not allowed in the outermost select list of fullselect2.
The result table of the fullselect2 must have the same
number of columns as row-value-expression. The data types of
the corresponding expressions of row-value-expression and of
its the corresponding result column of fullselect2 must be
compatible. The value of each expression in row-value-expression is
compared with the value of its corresponding result column of fullselect2.

The value of the predicate depends on the operator that
is specified:
When the operator is IN, the result of the predicate is: True if at least one row returned from the fullselect2 is
equal to the row-value-expression.
False if the result of fullselect2 is empty or if no row
returned from the fullselect2 is equal to the row-value-expression.
Otherwise, unknown (that is, if the comparison of row-value-expression to
the row returned from fullselect2 evaluates to unknown because
of a null value for at least one row returned from fullselect2 and
no row returned from fullselect2 is equal to the row-value-expression).

When the operator is NOT IN, the result of the predicate is: True if the result of fullselect2 is empty or if the row-value-expression is
not equal to any of the rows returned by fullselect2.
False if the row-value-expression is equal to at least
one row returned by fullselect2.
Otherwise, unknown (that is, if the comparison of row-value-expression to
the row returned from fullselect2 evaluates to unknown because
of a null value for at least one row returned from fullselect2 and
the comparison of row-value-expression to the row returned
from fullselect2 is not true for any row returned by fullselect2).

An IN predicate is equivalent to other predicates as follows:
IN predicate
Equivalent predicate

expression IN (expression)
expression = expression

expression IN (fullselect)
expression = ANY (fullselect)

expression NOT IN (fullselect)
expression <> ALL (fullselect)

expression IN (expression1,
expression2, ..., expressionn)
expression IN (SELECT * FROM R)
Where
T is a table with a single row and R is a temporary table formed by
the following fullselect: SELECT expression1 FROM T
UNION
SELECT expression2 FROM T
UNION
.
.
.
UNION
SELECT expressionn FROM T

row-value-expression IN (fullselect)
row-value-expression = SOME ( fullselect)

row-value-expression IN (fullselect)
row-value-expression = ANY ( fullselect)

row-value-expression NOT IN (fullselect)
row-value-expression <> ALL
( fullselect)

If the operands of the IN predicate have different data
types or attributes, the rules used to determine the data type for
evaluation of the IN predicate are those for UNION, UNION ALL, EXCEPT,
and INTERSECT. For a description, see Rules for result data types.
If the operands of the IN predicate are strings with different
CCSIDs, the rules used to determine which operands are converted are
those for operations that combine strings. For a description, see Conversion rules for operations that combine strings.
If the corresponding operands of the predicate are SBCS
data, mixed data, or Unicode data, and if the collating sequence in
effect at the time the statement is executed is not *HEX, then the
comparison of the operands is performed using weighted values for
the operands. The weighted values are based on the collating sequence.
Examples DEPTNO IN ('D01', 'B01', 'C01')

EMPNO IN(SELECT EMPNO FROM EMPLOYEE WHERE WORKDEPT = 'E11')

Parent topic: Predicates