Start Job Trace (STRJOBTRC)

Start Job Trace (STRJOBTRC)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Start Job Trace (STRJOBTRC) command starts the job tracing function to collect performance statistics for the specified job. It issues the following command:

STRTRC MAXSTG(maxstg) TRCFULL(*STOPTRC)

The MAXSTG value used is either the STRJOBTRC default or a specified value.

Once job tracing is started, a trace record is generated for every external (program) call and return, exception, message, and work station wait in the job. At least two, and usually more, trace records are generated for every I/O statement (open, close, read, write) in a high-level language program.

After the target programs have been run, the End Job Trace (ENDJOBTRC) command is used to turn tracing off, record the collected information in a database file, and optionally produce reports used to analyze the data. The Print Job Trace (PRTJOBTRC) command may also be used to print the same report at any time thereafter. Alternatively, specifying *DLT for the Data option (DTAOPT) parameter of the End Trace (ENDTRC) command may be used to stop the job trace (turn it off without recording any collected data).

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
MAXSTG | Maximum storage | 1-4000000, 10000 | Optional, Positional 1
JOB | Job name | Single values: *
Other values: Qualified job name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Job name | Name
Qualifier 2: User | Name
Qualifier 3: Number | 000000-999999
THDID | Thread ID to include | Values (up to 20 repetitions): Hexadecimal value, *ALL | Optional

Top

Maximum storage (MAXSTG)

Specifies the maximum amount of storage to allocate to the internal buffer in which every trace record generated is stored. If enough trace records are collected to fill the buffer, tracing is automatically turned off.

10000
A 10,000 kilobyte trace buffer is used.

1-16000
Specify the size of the trace buffer, in kilobytes.

Top

Job name (JOB)

Specifies the job to be traced.

Single values

*
The current job is traced.

Qualifier 1: Job name

name
Specify the name of the job to be traced.

Qualifier 2: User

name
Specify the user name of the job to be traced.

Qualifier 3: Number

000000-999999
Specify the 6-digit number of the job to be traced. All 6 digits must be specified, including zeros.

Top

Thread ID to include (THDID)

Specifies a list of up to twenty threads whose calls and returns are included in the trace. Only trace records for the specified thread identifiers are included.

Single values

*ALL
The calls and returns for all threads are included in the trace.

Other values (up to 20 repetitions)

hexadecimal-value
Specify the identifiers of up to twenty threads whose trace records are to be included.

Top

Examples

STRJOBTRC MAXSTG(512)

This command starts collecting trace data for the current job. It uses a 512 kilobyte (KB) trace buffer.

Top

Error messages

None

Top