I-O

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Compiler-Directing Statements > COPY Statement > COPY Statement - Format 2 - DDS Translate > COPY Statement - Format 2 - DDS Translate

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Compiler-Directing Statements > COPY Statement > COPY Statement - Format 2 - DDS Translate

I-O
If neither -I or I-FIELDS, nor -O or O-FIELDS is specified, then -I-O or
I-O-FIELDS is assumed. If -I and O-FIELDS, or -O and I-FIELDS is specified,
then -I-O or I-O-FIELDS is assumed.
If a format-name is specified without the indicator attribute, and both -I and -O formats
are to be generated, each record format is generated as a redefinition of
a 05 elementary item defined as the size of the largest record format that
will be generated.
If ALL-FORMATS is specified without the indicator attribute,
each record format is generated as a redefinition of a 05 elementary item
defined as either:
The size of the largest record format in the file, if the COPY statement
appears in the FILE SECTION.
The size of the largest record format that will be generated, if the COPY
statement appears outside of the FILE SECTION.

When the indicator attribute is specified, no redefinition takes place. Instead, each of the formats generates
a separate data structure. For details, refer to INDICATOR Attribute of the Format 2 COPY Statement.
If the file is a database file, a single I-O format is generated.
For all other file types the description generated varies as follows:
If -I is specified, the generated data description entries contain either:
The input and input/output fields for a nonsubfile format
The input, output, and input/output fields for a subfile format.

If -O is specified, the generated data description entries contain the
output and input/output fields.

The use of the Indicator attribute is discussed under INDICATOR Attribute of the Format 2 COPY Statement.
File-name is the name of a system file. The generated
DDS entries represent the record format(s) defined in the file. The file must
be created before the program is compiled.
Library-name is optional. If it is not specified, the current
job library list is used as the default value.

Parent topic: COPY Statement - Format 2 - DDS Translate