Remove Program Temporary Fix (RMVPTF)

Remove Program Temporary Fix (RMVPTF)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Remove Program Temporary Fix (RMVPTF) command removes the specified program temporary fixes (PTFs) from the specified product. If the PTFs were temporarily applied, the original objects that they replaced are returned. If the PTFs are temporarily removed, the PTF objects remain in the product PTF library and the PTFs can be applied again. If the PTFs are permanently removed, the PTF objects are removed from the product PTF library.

The RMVPTF command is used to remove immediate PTFs at the time the command is run, or to request PTFs to be removed during the next unattended initial program load (IPL).

Restrictions:

- To use this command, you must have all object (*ALLOBJ) special authority.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
LICPGM | Product | Character value | Required, Positional 1
RLS | Release | Character value, *ONLY | Optional
SELECT | PTF numbers to select | Single values: *ALL
Other values (up to 300 repetitions): Character value | Optional
OMIT | PTF numbers to omit | Values (up to 300 repetitions): Character value | Optional
RMV | Extent of change | *TEMP, *PERM | Optional
DELAYED | Delayed PTFs | *NO, *YES | Optional
IPLRMV | Remove on unattended IPL | *YES, *NO | Optional
RMVDEP | Remove dependent PTFs | *NO, *YES | Optional

Top

Product (LICPGM)

Specifies the 7-character identifier of the product from which the PTFs are removed.

This is a required parameter.

Top

Release (RLS)

Specifies the release level of the PTFs being removed.

*ONLY
This value is valid when only one release of the product's base option is installed on the system. PTFs for all installed options of the product are removed regardless of the release-level of the option.

character-value
Specify the release level in one of the following formats:

- VxRyMz, where Vx is the version number, Ry is the release number, and Mz is the modification level. The variables x and y can be a number from 0 through 9, and the variable z can be a number from 0 through 9 or a letter from A through Z.

- vvrrmm, where version vv and release rr must be a number from 00 through 35, and modification mm must be a number from 00 through 09 or a letter from 0A through 0Z. The leading zeros are required. This format must be used if the version or release of the product is greater than 9.

If the release-level specified is the release-level of the base option of the product, PTFs for all installed options of the product are removed regardless of the release-level of the option.

If the release-level specified is not the release-level of the base option of the product, only PTFs for the options installed at that release-level are removed.

Top

PTF numbers to select (SELECT)

Specifies which PTFs are removed from the specified product. The PTF numbers to omit (OMIT) parameter cannot be specified if single PTF numbers are specified for this parameter.

Single values

*ALL
All the PTFs are removed from the product. Those that were permanently applied are ignored by this command. If all PTFs cannot be removed, messages are sent to the operator indicating the PTFs that are not removed and the reasons why they are not being removed.

Other values (up to 300 repetitions)

character-value
Specify the PTF identification number of each program temporary fix being removed.

Top

PTF numbers to omit (OMIT)

Specifies that all PTFs are removed except for those specified in this parameter. Specify the PTF numbers of the program temporary fixes that are omitted (left in the system) when all the rest are removed. A maximum of 300 PTF numbers can be specified. The OMIT parameter cannot be specified if single PTF numbers are specified in the PTF numbers to select (SELECT) parameter.

character-value
Specify the PTF identification number of each program temporary fix not removed.

Top

Extent of change (RMV)

Specifies whether the PTFs are removed temporarily or permanently. Permanently removed PTF objects are removed from the product PTF library. Temporarily removed PTF objects remain in the product PTF library so the PTFs can be applied again.

*TEMP
The PTFs are temporarily removed and PTF objects remain in the product PTF library so the PTFs can be applied again.

*PERM
The PTFs are permanently removed and PTF objects are removed from the product PTF library.

Top

Delayed PTFs (DELAYED)

Specifies whether immediate PTFs are removed at the time the command is run, or whether immediate and delayed PTFs are removed in a delayed manner during the next unattended IPL.

*NO
Any immediate PTFs that do not supersede delayed PTFs are removed at the time the command is processed. For delayed PTFs, if the PTF has a status of Not applied and you have specified RMV(*PERM), the PTF is permanently removed at the time the command is run. All other delayed PTFs are ignored during the RMVPTF request and are not removed. For immediate PTFs that are being temporarily removed, any preconditions that are active will result in the PTF not being removed. Immediate PTFs that supersede delayed PTFs are only removed when the delayed superseded PTFs have a status of Permanently applied or Superseded where the "Superseded by" PTF has a status of Permanently applied. A message is sent for each PTF that is not removed.

*YES
Both delayed and immediate PTFs are removed during the next unattended IPL. The Remove on unattended IPL (IPLRMV) parameter determines whether the PTFs are removed during the next unattended IPL, or whether any previous request to remove the PTFs during the next unattended IPL is canceled.

Top

Remove on unattended IPL (IPLRMV)

Specifies the action that is done for delayed or immediate PTFs at the next unattended IPL. This parameter is valid only if *YES was specified for the Delayed PTFs (DELAYED) parameter.

*YES
The identified PTFs are removed at the next unattended IPL. The Extent of change (RMV) parameter determines whether the removal is temporary or permanent.

*NO
Any previous request to remove the identified PTFs at the next unattended IPL is canceled.

Top

Remove dependent PTFs (RMVDEP)

Specifies whether dependent PTFs and mutually dependent PTFs in the same product and option as the PTFs specified in the SELECT parameter are processed with the PTFs specified in the SELECT parameter list. The RMVDEP parameter is valid only if *ALL is not specified in the SELECT parameter.

*NO
The dependent and mutually dependent PTFs are not processed with the SELECT parameter list. No PTFs are removed if any PTF specified in the list has dependent PTFs not also in the list or already applied. Messages identify the missing dependent PTFs and the specified PTFs on which they depend.

*YES
The dependent and mutually dependent PTFs are removed with the SELECT parameter list.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Temporarily Removing PTFs

RMVPTF LICPGM(57xxSS1) DELAYED(*YES)

This command temporarily removes all temporarily applied PTFs from the operating system (57xxSS1) at the next IPL. The PTFs can be applied again, if necessary, using the APYPTF command.

Example 2: Permanently Removing PTFs

RMVPTF LICPGM(57xxSS1) SELECT(SI10002 SI10005) RMV(*PERM)

This command permanently removes two PTFs (numbers SI10002 and SI10005) from the operating system (57xxSS1). The PTF objects are removed from the product PTF library, so the PTFs must be loaded again using the LODPTF command before they can be applied.

Example 3: Removing PTFs and Their Mutual Dependents

RMVPTF LICPGM(57xxSS1) SELECT(SI00003 SI00008 SI00012)
DELAYED(*YES) RMVDEP(*YES)

This command temporarily removes PTFs SI00003, SI00008, SI00012, and their dependent and mutually dependent PTFs within the same product and option from the operating system in library QSYS at the next IPL.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF24B4
Severe error while addressing parameter list.

CPF35A0
Cannot allocate library &1.

CPF35A1
Wrong copy of Licensed Internal Code in use.

CPF35A4
Licensed Internal Code fix &2 cannot be removed.

CPF35A9
Error occurred while processing Licensed Internal Code fix.

CPF35C0
IPL action cannot be removed for PTF &1-&2 &4.

CPF35D0
Licensed Internal Code fix &1-&2 &4 not set to be removed permanently.

CPF35D2
PTF &1-&2 not removed.

CPF35EB
Multiple releases of product &1 installed.

CPF35E4
Information for PTF &1-&2 &4 not complete.

CPF35FB
PTF &1-&2 not removed.

CPF3558
Cannot allocate &1 in &3 type *&2.

CPF3564
PTF &1-&2 damaged.

CPF358A
Release not valid.

CPF3596
PTF numbers in select/omit list not permitted.

CPF3598
PTF function already in process.

CPF3602
PTF &2 not removed because it is permanently applied.

CPF3604
PTF not removed because an error occurred.

CPF3606
Product &1 &3 not installed.

CPF361E
Error occurred while removing PTFs for product &1.

CPF3612
Library &1 not found.

CPF3641
No immediate PTFs removed.

CPF3658
No program temporary fixes identified.

CPF3693
Service function ended because error occurred.

CPF3931
Required programs not found. PTF incomplete.

CPF3945
Records of PTF activity for licensed program are deleted.

CPF3956
Error occurred during PTF processing.

Top