Create CRQ Description (CRTCRQD)

Create CRQ Description (CRTCRQD)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Create Change Request Description (CRTCRQD) command can be used to create a change request description. A change request description contains a list of activities that are performed to complete the specified change.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
CRQD | Change request description | Qualified object name | Required, Positional 1
Qualifier 1: Change request description | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *CURLIB
USRPRF | User profile | *SBM, *OWNER | Optional
PRBID | Problem identifier | Character value, *NONE | Optional
PRBORG | Problem origin | Element list | Optional
Element 1: Network identifier | Communications name, *NETATR
Element 2: Control point name | Communications name, *NETATR
TEXT | Text 'description' | Character value, *BLANK | Optional
AUT | Authority | Name, *EXCLUDE, *LIBCRTAUT, *CHANGE, *ALL, *USE | Optional

Top

Change request description (CRQD)

Specifies the name and the library of the change request description being created.

The name of the change request description can be qualified by one of the following library values:

*CURLIB
The change request description is created in the current library for the job. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, the QGPL library is used.

library-name
Specify the name of the library where the change request description is created.

The possible values are:

change-request-description-name
Specify the name of the change request description being created.

This is a required parameter.

Top

User profile (USRPRF)

Specifies whether the authority checking (done while this change request is running) is based on the user who submitted the change request description or on the owner of the change request description. The user profile is used to run the change request and control which objects can be used by the change request.

The possible values are:

*SBM
The user profile of the submitter is used when the change request is run.

*OWNER
The user profile of the change request description owner is used when the change request is run.

Note: This is not like a program that runs under its owner's profile, for which both the program owner and the program user profiles are used. Only the owner's profile is used if this value is specified.

Top

Problem identifier (PRBID)

Specifies the ID of the problem to be associated with this change request description. Problems with different origin systems might have the same identifier.

The possible values are:

*NONE
A problem ID is not specified.

problem-identifier
Specify the ID of the problem to be associated with the change request description. If a problem ID is not found, a diagnostic message is issued.

Top

Problem Origin (PRBORG)

Specifies the origin system of the problem ID.

The possible network identifier values are:

*NETATR
The network ID is the same as the one defined in the network attributes for this system.

network-identifier
Specify a network ID.

The possible control point name values are:

*NETATR
The control point name is the same as the local control point name defined in the network attributes for this system.

control-point-name
Specify a control point name.

Top

Text 'description' (TEXT)

Specifies text that briefly describes the object. More information on this parameter is in the CL Reference book, Appendix A.

The possible values are:

*BLANK
Text is not specified.

'description'
Specify a maximum of 50 characters, enclosed in apostrophes.

Top

Authority (AUT)

Specifies the authority given to users who do not have specific authority to the object, who are not on an authorization list, and whose user group has no specific authority to the object.

The possible values are:

*EXCLUDE
The user cannot access the object.

*LIBCRTAUT
The public authority for the object is taken from the value on the CRTAUT parameter of the target library (the library that is to contain the object). The public authority is determined when the object is created. If the CRTAUT value for the library changes after the object is created, the new value does not affect any existing objects.

*CHANGE
The user can perform all operations on the object except those limited to the owner or controlled by object existence authority and object management authority. The user can change and perform basic functions on the object. Change authority provides object operational authority and all data authority.

Note: The user with *CHANGE authority cannot change the user profile value (USRPRF). To change the user profile value, the user must be the owner or must have *ALLOBJ and *SECADM authority.

*ALL
The user can perform all operations except those limited to the owner or controlled by authorization list management authority. The user can control the object's existence, specify the security for the object, change the object, and perform basic functions on the object. The user can also change ownership of the object.

*USE
The user can perform basic operations on the object, such as running a program or reading a file. The user cannot change the object. Use (*USE) authority provides object operational (*OBJOPR), read (*READ), and execute (*EXECUTE) authorities.

authorization-list-name
Specify the name of the authorization list whose authority is used.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Creating a Change Request Description in Your Own Library

CRTCRQD CRQD(MYLIB/CHG001)

This command creates a change request description in MYLIB with the name CHG001 and a text description.

Example 2: Creating a Change Request Description That Runs Under Another Person's Profile

CRTCRQD CRQD(CHG222) USRPRF(*SBM)

This command creates a change request description called CHG222 that runs under the user profile that submits it.

Example 3: Creating a Change Request Description and Associating a Problem With It

CRTCRQD CRQD(CHG999) PRBID(1234567890) PRBORG(*NETATR STORE101)

This command creates a change request description in *CURLIB called CHG999 that is associated with problem ID 1234567890. The problem origin network ID is the same as the local system. The control point name is STORE101.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF969A
Change request description created, but warnings exist.

Top