Transfer Job (TFRJOB)

Transfer Job (TFRJOB)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Transfer Job (TFRJOB) command transfers a job to the specified job queue. The job that is transferred is the one where this command is issued. If the job being transferred is an interactive job, it is given the highest priority on the job queue. New routing data and request data can be specified for the job when it is transferred.

If objects allocated to the previous routing step are needed in the new routing step, they must be allocated again. If files opened in the previous routing step are needed in the new routing step, they must be opened again.

Restrictions:

- To use this command, you must have:

use (*USE) authority to the job queue and execute (*EXECUTE) authority to the library that contains that job queue.

use (*USE) authority to the subsystem description associated with the subsystem that has the job queue allocated. This restriction only applies if the job being transferred is an interactive job.

- If the job being transferred is an interactive job, the following restrictions apply:

The job queue on which the job is placed must be associated with an active subsystem.

The work station associated with the job must have a corresponding work station entry in the subsystem description associated with the new subsystem.

The work station associated with the job must not have another job associated with it that has been suspended by means of the Sys Req (system request) key. The suspended job must be canceled before the Transfer Job command can be run.

The job must not be a group job.

- The job must not be a communications batch job (started as a result of a program start request), unless it meets one of the following criteria:

It was started from an APPC communications device.

The session on the communications device has ended.

Notes:

- Running this command in a batch job causes loss of spooled inline files because they cannot be accessed in the new routing step.

- If the target subsystem is ended (by running the End Subsystem (ENDSBS) command, the End System (ENDSYS) command, or the Power Down System (PWRDWNSYS) command) while an interactive transferring job is on a job queue, the job is canceled as part of subsystem ending.

- Because a PWRDWNSYS command inhibits new jobs or routing steps from being started by any subsystem, a batch job transferred to a job queue (by the TFRJOB command) is not completed before the system is powered down.

- The temporary objects associated with a transferring job (such as the library list, the QTEMP library, and all objects in it) are destroyed during the PWRDWNSYS command, so that during a re-initial program load (IPL), the system is unable to restore the job to its previous state. During re-IPL, the system removes the job from the job queue and produces its job log.

- If the TFRJOB command is issued in a CL program, all subsequent commands in the CL program are bypassed.

- When the new routing step is started, the current user must have use (*USE) authority to the subsystem description for the subsystem in which the routing step runs.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
JOBQ | Job queue | Qualified object name | Required, Positional 1
Qualifier 1: Job queue | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
RTGDTA | Routing data | Character value, QCMDI, *RQSDTA | Optional
RQSDTA | Request data or command | Character value, *NONE, *RTGDTA | Optional

Top

Job queue (JOBQ)

Specifies the qualified name of the job queue to which the job is transferred.

This is a required parameter.

Qualifier 1: Job queue

name
Specify the name of the job queue.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the thread's library list are searched until a match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the thread is used to locate the object. If no library is specified as the current library for the thread, the QGPL library is used.

name
Specify the library where the job queue is located.

Top

Routing data (RTGDTA)

Specifies the routing data used to start the next routing step in the job. The routing data is used to determine the routing entry that identifies the program that the job runs.

QCMDI
This routing data matches a routing entry in the IBM-supplied subsystem descriptions, which starts a routing step processed by the IBM-supplied control language processor, QCMD, in the QSYS library.

*RQSDTA
The first 80 characters of the request data specified in the Request data or command (RQSDTA) parameter of this command are also used as the routing data for the routing step.

character-value
Specify the character string that is used as the routing data for starting the routing step. A maximum of 80 characters can be entered, enclosed in apostrophes if necessary.

Top

Request data or command (RQSDTA)

Specifies the request data that is placed as the last entry in this job's message queue. The request data can be a CL command to be run or a string of characters used by another program.

*NONE
No request data is placed in the job's message queue.

*RTGDTA
The routing data specified in the Routing data (RTGDTA) parameter is also placed at the end of the job's message queue.

character-value
Specify the character string that is placed at the end of the job's message queue for use by the new routing step or some subsequent routing step in the job. A maximum of 256 characters can be entered, enclosed in apostrophes if necessary.

Top

Examples

TFRJOB JOBQ(QGPL/APPLICQ) RTGDTA(APPLICS)

This command transfers the job in which the command is entered to the APPLICQ job queue in the QGPL library. The job is routed using the routing data APPLICS. If the job is an interactive job, the job queue must be allocated by an active subsystem.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF1289
Transfer job is not allowed.

CPF1315
Command &1 not allowed in this environment.

CPF1357
Job not transferred.

CPF1364
Job not transferred. Job queue &1 in library &2 not active.

CPF1365
Job not transferred. Subsystem &1 ending.

CPF1366
Subsystem &1 has no usable work station entry for &2.

CPF1367
User &1 not authorized to subsystem &2

CPF1368
&1 not authorized to job queue &2 in library &3.

CPF1369
Job queue &1 in &2 not found.

CPF1370
Job queue &1 in &2 not accessible.

CPF1372
Job not transferred. Job currently being ended.

CPF1373
Job not transferred. System request in effect for job.

CPF1375
Job not transferred. Single active job not allowed to transfer.

Top