Display CRG Information (DSPCRGINF)

Display CRG Information (DSPCRGINF)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: Yes | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Display Cluster Resource Group Information (DSPCRGINF) command is used to display or print information about cluster resource groups. It must be invoked from a node in the cluster. The information displayed or printed may not be current if the command is called on a node that has a status of Inactive or Failed. In this case, the information displayed or printed will reflect the state of the cluster when the node was last active. You can use this command to display or print a list of cluster resource groups or complete information about a cluster resource group.

If CRG(*LIST) is specified, the request for information is not distributed to other nodes in the cluster. The information about the cluster resource groups shows the values obtained from the node running this command. Several conditions (for example, Cluster Resource Services not active on the node running the command) may produce inconsistent information about a cluster resource group in the cluster.

When you request information for a specific cluster resource group, basic information for the cluster resource group is always shown. In addition, you can request additional details that include the recovery domain and the list of resilient devices. If Cluster Resource Services has been started, this command will return information about the cluster resource group even if it does not exist on the node from which the command is called provided at least one recovery domain node is active.

If Cluster Resource Services has not been started:

- The information returned may not be current

- Information will only be returned for a cluster resource group that exist on the node running the command

This command may be called from a cluster resource group exit program. However if the cluster resource group exit program was called as a result of the Create Cluster Resource Group (CRTCRG) command and you are requesting information for that cluster resource group, the command will fail.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
CRG | Cluster resource group | Character value, *LIST | Optional, Positional 1
OUTPUT | Output | *, *PRINT | Optional
CLUSTER | Cluster | Name, * | Optional

Top

Cluster resource group (CRG)

Specifies the cluster resource group for which information is to be displayed or printed.

*LIST
Designates the list of currently defined cluster resource groups (CRGs) and CRG containers in the specified cluster are to be displayed or printed. Additionally, descriptive information about each CRG and CRG container is displayed or printed. The information is returned for all CRGs and CRG containers in the cluster, even if they do not exist on the node running the command. Information on all the cluster resource groups will be printed regardless of the authority of the user calling the command.

name
Specify the name of the cluster resource group.

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether the output from the command is shown at the requesting workstation or printed with the job's spooled output. More information on this parameter is in commonly used parameters.

*
Output requested by an interactive job is shown on the display. If the command is run as part of a batch job, the output is printed with the job's spooled output.

*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output.

Top

Cluster (CLUSTER)

Specifies the name of the cluster.

*
The cluster that has been configured on this system is used.

name
Specify the name of the cluster.

Top

Examples for DSPCRGINF

DSPCRGINF CRG(*LIST) OUTPUT(*PRINT)

This command will print the basic configuration information about all cluster resource groups defined in the cluster.

Top

Error messages for DSPCRGINF

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF1999
Errors occurred on command.

Top