VOL parameter

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters > Commonly used parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters

VOL parameter
The volume (VOL) parameter specifies the volume identifiers of
the volumes used in a tape or optical operation.
A tape volume consists of a tape cartridge or reel. An optical
volume consists of a single side of an optical cartridge or a single CD-ROM.
Optical cartridges are dual-sided and each side is a separate volume.
The
volume identifier is the identifier stored on each tape or optical disk (in
the volume label area) that it identifies. An inquiry message is sent to
the system operator if a volume identifier is missing or out of order.
Tape
volumes must be on the tape units in the same order as their identifiers are
specified in the VOL parameter and as the device names are specified in the
DEV parameter of the tape device file commands. However, if the tapes are
read backward (a function supported in COBOL), the volumes must be in reverse
order to that specified in the VOL parameter. Nevertheless, the device names
are still specified in forward order in the DEV parameter.
In
general, the rule for specifying tape volume identifiers is that as many as
6 characters, containing any combination of letters and digits, can be used.
Special characters can be used if the identifier is enclosed in single quotation
marks. However, if the tape is used on an operating system other than the i5/OS® operating system, the requirements
for specifying identifiers must be considered.
Optical volume identifiers
can be up to 32 characters long and can contain any combination of digits
and uppercase letters. Each optical volume identifier must be
unique. No two optical volumes with the same identifier can be present on
the system at the same time.
For labeled tapes, the following rules
apply:
Characters: A maximum of 6 characters, or fewer, can be specified for
each volume identifier. Alphabetic and numeric characters can be used in any
order.
Uniqueness: More than one volume can have the same identifier. You may
have a file using the same identifier for several volumes; in this case, the
system keeps track of the order internally with a sequence number written
on the volumes. However, volume identifiers should be unique whenever possible.
Order: When multiple volumes (with different identifiers) are used in
a single operation, they must be in the same order as the volume identifiers
specified in the VOL parameter.

Multivolume filesIf multiple volumes (tapes) are
used in an operation and all have the same volume identifier, that identifier
must be specified in the VOL parameter once for each volume used. For example,
if three tapes named QGPL are used in a save operation, VOL(QGPL QGPL QGPL)
must be specified.
When a multivolume file on tape is processed
and multiple tape units are used, the tape volumes must be placed in the tape
devices in the same order as they are specified in the VOL parameter. For
example, if five volumes and three tape units are used, they are mounted as
follows: VOL1 on unit 1, VOL2 on unit 2, VOL3 on unit 3, VOL4 on unit 1, and
VOL5 on unit 2.

Values allowed*MOUNTED
The volume currently placed in the device is used.
*NONE
No volume identifier is specified.
*SAME
Previously specified volume identification does not change.
*SAVVOL
The system, using the save/restore history information, determines which
tape volumes contain the most recently saved version. If the device specified
in the DEV parameter of the restore command does not match the device of the
most recently saved version of the object, an error message is returned to
the user, and the function is ended. If the wrong volume is mounted in the
unit specified by the command, a message is returned to the system operator
that identifies the first volume that must be placed in the device before
the restore operation can begin.
volume-identifier
Specify the identifiers of one or more volumes in the order in which they
are put on the device and used. Each tape volume identifier contains a maximum
of 6 alphanumeric characters. Each optical volume identifier contains a maximum
of 32 characters. A blank is used as a separator character when listing multiple
identifiers.

Parent topic: Commonly used parameters

Related information
Optical device programming