RTNDTA (Return Data) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

RTNDTA (Return Data) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword to specify
that when your program sends an input operation to this record
format, the IBM® i operating
system is to return the same data that was returned on the previous input
operation sent to this record format.

The RTNDTA keyword is ignored if the record format has not already
been read. When the RTNDTA keyword is in effect, your program can reread data
on the display without requiring the IBM i operating
system to actually pass data from the display device to your program.
This
keyword has no parameters.
The RTNDTA keyword is ignored in the following
situations:
On the input portion of an input/output operation (Put-Get operation)

On an input operation that is preceded by an output operation to the same
record format

The RTNDTA keyword has effect only on an input operation sent
to the same record format without an intervening output operation to that
record format.
You can use RTNDTA as follows:
Use RTNDTA to allow a main program to read a record format that is changed
by a workstation user. The data read tells the main program which subprogram
to call. The subprogram sends an input operation to the same record format,
with RTNDTA in effect, to read the same data. This procedure can substitute
for passing parameters to subprograms. Note: SHARE(*YES) must be specified
for both display files.

Use RTNDTA to allow an RPG III program to perform file maintenance with
less locking of records in the database. For instance, the program reads a
database record and displays the record at the display device. The workstation
user reviews the record, makes any required changes, and presses the Enter
key. While the workstation user is making changes, the database record, if
locked, is unavailable to other programs. Hence it is recommended to leave
the database record unlocked. However, when the program reads the record from
the display and updates the database record, the database record overlays
the internal representation of the display record in the program. Instead
of preventing the overlay by using different field names for the display record
and the database record, the program rereads the display file. With RTNDTA
specified, the program retrieves the display record again and can then finish
updating the database.

If the UNLOCK keyword is specified, the RTNDTA keyword cannot
be specified.
Option indicators are not valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the RTNDTA keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R RECORD1 RTNDTA
00020A FLD1 5 I 2 2
00030A FLD2 5 B 3 2
A