countprefix

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes > XML-INTO (Parse an XML Document into a Variable) > %DATA and %XML options for DATA-GEN, DATA-INTO, and XML-INTO > %DATA and %XML options for DATA-GEN, DATA-INTO, and XML-INTO

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes > XML-INTO (Parse an XML Document into a Variable) > %DATA and %XML options for DATA-GEN, DATA-INTO, and XML-INTO

countprefix

The countprefix option is used for DATA-GEN, DATA-INTO and XML-INTO.

For the XML-INTO and DATA-INTO operations, the countprefix option
specifies the prefix for the subfields
that can receive the number of elements that were set by the
operation for a subfield array. The name of the count subfield is
formed by adding the array name to the countprefix value. For example,
if a data structure has a subfield array meeting.attendees, and "countprefix=num"
was specified, the XML-INTO or DATA-INTO operation would set meeting.numattendees
to the actual number of elements of the meeting.attendees array that
were set by the operation. In the subsequent discussion of
the countprefix option, subfield meeting.numattendees is referred
to as the countprefix subfield and meeting.attendees
is referred to as the counted subfield.

The processing for the countprefix option is done after the
data for a data structure or data structure subfield has been parsed.

For the DATA-GEN operation, the countprefix option
specifies the prefix for the subfields
that indicate how many elements of a counted array subfield should be generated,
or whether a non-array subfield should be generated.
For example,
if a data structure has a subfield array meeting.attendees, and "countprefix=num"
was specified, the DATA-GEN operation would use the value of meeting.numattendees
to determine the number of elements of the meeting.attendees array that
were generated by the operation.

Note:
A countprefix subfield must be numeric, and it must be scalar;
that is, it cannot be an array or a data structure. If a subfield
has a countprefix name, but is not numeric or scalar, that subfield
will be processed normally; it will not be considered to be a countprefix
subfield.

A counted subfield can be any type of subfield; it is not required
to be an array.
For the XML-INTO and DATA-INTO operations, if a counted subfield is not an array, its countprefix
subfield will be set to 0 (zero) if there is no data in the document to set the
subfield, and it will be set to 1 (one) if there is data in the document to set
it.

for the DATA-GEN operation, if a counted subfield is not an array, it will be generated
if its countprefix subfield has a value of 1 (one) and it will not be generated if its
countprefix subfield has a value of 0 (zero).

A countprefix subfield is not considered to be countable. For
example, if countprefix=num_ was specified, and the data structure
has subfields arr, num_arr and num_num_arr, then num_arr would be
considered a countprefix subfield for array arr, but num_num_arr would
not be considered a countprefix subfield for num_arr.

For the XML-INTO and DATA-INTO operations:

When a subfield is counted by a countprefix subfield, the allowmissing
option is not considered for that subfield. Option allowmissing=yes
is implied for all subfields that are counted by a countprefix subfield.

If there is too much data in the document for a subfield, the countprefix
subfield will only reflect the number of array elements that were
actually set by the XML-INTO or DATA-INTO operation. For example, if array arr
has ten elements, and there is data for eleven elements, the countprefix
subfield for arr would have the value 10.

If the XML-INTO or DATA-INTO operation ends in error, the countprefix subfields
may not reflect the exact number of RPG subfields that were updated
by the operation. The countprefix processing is done after
the data for each data structure or data structure subfield has
been parsed; if an error occurs during parsing, or during the countprefix
processing, the countprefix processing would not be completed.

A countprefix subfield cannot be explicitly set by data in the document. Any
items in the document that set a countprefix subfield are
considered to be extra.

A countprefix subfield cannot be the same as a datasubf subfield.
For example, if countprefix=num_ was specified, and the data structure
has subfields arr and num_arr, then num_arr is a countprefix subfield.
Option datasubf=num_arr cannot also be specified for this data structure.

For examples of the "countprefix" option, see Examples of the countprefix option.

Examples of the countprefix option

Parent topic: %DATA and %XML options for DATA-GEN, DATA-INTO, and XML-INTO