End Job Trace (ENDJOBTRC)

End Job Trace (ENDJOBTRC)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The End Job Trace (ENDJOBTRC) command turns off the job tracing function that was started by the Start Job Trace (STRJOBTRC) command, saves all collected trace records in a database file, and optionally produces reports that are used to analyze the data for information about performance. The Print Job Trace (PRTJOBTRC) command may also be used to produce reports from the same source data.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
MBR | Output file member | Name, QAJOBTRC | Optional, Positional 1
LIB | Output file library | Name, QPFRDATA | Optional, Positional 2
RPTTYPE | Report type | *NONE, *DETAIL, *SUMMARY, *BOTH | Optional, Positional 3
TITLE | Report title | Character value, *BLANK | Optional, Positional 4
STRSEQ | Starting sequence number | 1-999999, *FIRST | Optional
ENDSEQ | Ending sequence number | Decimal number, *LAST | Optional
ENDTNS | Transaction ending program | Name, QT3REQIO, *BATCH | Optional
STRTNS | Transaction starting program | Name, QWSGET | Optional
JOB | Job name | Name, ENDJOBTRC, *MBR | Optional
JOBD | Job description | Single values: *NONE
Other values: Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Job description | Name, QPFRJOBD
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB

Top

Output file member (MBR)

Specifies the member in file QAPTTRCJ in which to save the trace data. If the member does not exist, it is added to the file. If the member exists, the new data replaces the old contents.

QAJOBTRC
The standard member name, QAJOBTRC, is used.

name
Specify the name of an alternate member in which to save the data. This allows several sets of job trace data to be kept.

Top

Output file library (LIB)

Specifies the library where the trace data is saved. If the library does not contain a file named QAPTTRCJ, one is created.

QPFRDATA
The trace data is saved in the IBM-supplied performance data library, QPFRDATA.

name
Specify the name of an alternate library where the trace data is saved. This is necessary if access to the default library is not allowed.

Top

Report type (RPTTYPE)

Specifies the type of reports being produced.

*NONE
No reports are produced; however, the Print Job Trace (PRTJOBTRC) command may be used later to report on the saved data. None of the remaining parameters are applicable if this value is selected.

*DETAIL
A report is produced that shows the individual job trace records in detail. The output is directed to the printer file QPPTTRCD. Each page heading includes the text 'Job Trace Information'.

*SUMMARY
Two reports are produced summarizing the job trace data by work station transaction. One report shows primarily physical disk activity; its printer file is QPPTTRC1, and its page heading includes the text 'Trace Analysis Summary'. The other report concentrates on higher level activities such as database I/O and inter-program transfers of control; its printer file is QPPTTRC2, and its page heading includes the text 'Trace Analysis I/O Summary'.

*BOTH
Both the detail report and the two summary reports are produced (three reports total).

Top

Report title (TITLE)

Specifies a title that is printed on the page heading of each report.

*BLANK
No title is specified.

character-value
Specify title of up to 50 characters enclosed in apostrophes. This may be used, for example, to distinguish between reports on different sets of trace data or different sections of the same data.

Top

Starting sequence number (STRSEQ)

Specifies the sequence number of the first job trace record that is included in any reports. No records preceding this one are listed in the detail report or counted in either summary report.

*FIRST
Trace records starting from the first trace record (sequence number 1) are included.

1-999999
Specify the sequence of the first trace record that is included. An appropriate value is determined by previewing reports that are produced from the job trace data. This can be used to bracket a particular set of transactions on which to report.

Top

Ending sequence number (ENDSEQ)

Specifies the sequence number of the last job trace record that is included in any reports. No records following this one are listed in the detail report or counted in either summary report.

*LAST
Trace records through the last trace record are included.

1-999999
Specify the sequence number of the last trace record that is included. An appropriate value can be chosen through a preview process so as to bracket a particular set of transactions.

Top

Transaction ending program (ENDTNS)

Specifies the program that signifies the end of a transaction. A program name must also be specified for the Transaction starting program (STRTNS) parameter.

QT3REQIO
The work station I/O program, QT3REQIO, is used. This value is used to break the trace data into display station transactions.

name
Specify the name of the program that ends a transaction. This allows reporting on non-display station transactions, such as communications lines.

Top

Transaction starting program (STRTNS)

Specifies the program that signifies the start of a transaction. A program name must also be specified for the Transaction ending program (ENDTNS) parameter.

QWSGET
The work station input program, QWSGET, is used. This value is used to break the trace data into display station transactions.

name
Specify the name of the program that starts a transaction.

Top

Job name (JOB)

Specifies the job name to be used if submitting the job for batch processing.

Any value for this parameter is ignored if *NONE is specified for the Job description (JOBD) parameter.

Note: If JOBD(*NONE) is specified, job processing is performed interactively.

ENDJOBTRC
The command name is used for the job name.

*MBR
The name selected for the performance data member in the Member (MBR) parameter is used.

name
Specify the name to be used for any and all batch jobs.

Top

Job description (JOBD)

Specifies the job description used to submit the job for batch processing.

Single values

*NONE
A batch job is not submitted; processing continues interactively while the user waits. The user's workstation is not available for other use during this time, which could be significant for long jobs.

Qualifier 1: Job description

QPFRJOBD
The IBM-supplied job description, QPFRJOBD, is used.

name
Specify the name of the job description to be used.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the job's library list are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is used to locate the job description. If no current library entry exists in the library list, QGPL is used.

name
Specify the library in which the job description is located.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Stopping Job Tracing

ENDJOBTRC

This command stops tracing and saves the created trace records in QPFRDATA/QAPTTRCJ, member QAJOBTRC. No reports are produced.

Example 2: Producing a Report of Job Records

ENDJOBTRC LIB(MYLIB) RPTTYPE(*DETAIL)

This command stops job tracing, saves the created trace records in member QAJOBTRC of MYLIB/QAPTTRCJ, and produces a detail report. The use of a private library allows several users to trace jobs at the same time.

Top

Error messages

None

Top