Numeric assignments

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Assignments and comparisons > Assignments and comparisons

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Assignments and comparisons

Numeric assignments
For numeric assignments, overflow is not allowed.
When assigning to an exact numeric data type, overflow occurs
if any digit of the whole part of the number would be eliminated.
If necessary, the fractional part of a number is truncated.
When assigning to an approximate numeric data type or decimal
floating-point number, overflow occurs if the most significant digit
of the whole part of the number is eliminated. For floating-point
and decimal floating-point numbers, the whole part of the number is
the number that would result if the floating-point or decimal floating-point
number were converted to a decimal number with unlimited precision.
If necessary, rounding may cause the least significant digits of the
number to be eliminated.For decimal floating-point numbers, truncation
of the whole part of the number is allowed and results in infinity
with a warning if *YES is specified for the SQL_DECFLOAT_WARNINGS
query option.

For floating-point numbers, underflow is also not allowed.
Underflow occurs for numbers between 1 and -1 if the most significant
digit other than zero would be eliminated. For decimal floating point,
underflow is allowed and depending on the rounding mode, results in
zero or the smallest positive number or the largest negative number
that can be represented. A warning is returned if *YES is specified
for the SQL_DECFLOAT_WARNINGS query option.
For information
about the decimal floating-point rounding mode, see CURRENT DECFLOAT ROUNDING MODE.
An overflow or underflow warning is returned instead of
an error if an overflow or underflow occurs on assignment to a host
variable with an indicator variable. In this case, the number is not
assigned to the host variable and the indicator variable is set to
negative 2.
Assignments to integerWhen a decimal, floating-point,
or decimal floating-point number is assigned to a binary integer column
or variable, the fractional part of the number is eliminated. As a
result, a number between 1 and -1 is reduced to 0.
Assignments to decimalWhen an integer is
assigned to a decimal column or variable, the number is first converted
to a temporary decimal number and then, if necessary, to the precision
and scale of the target. The precision and scale of the temporary
decimal number is 5,0 for a small integer, 11,0 for a large integer,
or 19,0 for a big integer.
When
a decimal number is assigned to a decimal column or variable, the
number is converted, if necessary, to the precision and the scale
of the target. The necessary number of leading zeros is added, and
in the fractional part of the decimal number the necessary number
of trailing zeros is added, or the necessary number of trailing digits
is eliminated.
When a floating-point number is assigned to a
decimal column or variable, the number is first converted to a temporary
decimal number of precision 63 and scale of 63 - (p-s) where p and s are
the precision and scale of the decimal column or variable. Then, if
necessary, the temporary number is truncated to the precision and
scale of the target. As a result, a number between 1 and -1 that is
less than the smallest positive number or greater than the largest
negative number that can be represented in the decimal column or variable
is reduced to 0.
When a decimal floating-point number is assigned
to a decimal column or variable, the number is rounded to the precision
and scale of the decimal column or variable. As a result, a number
between 1 and -1 that is less than the smallest positive number or
greater than the largest negative number that can be represented in
the decimal column or variable is reduced to 0 or rounded to the smallest
positive or largest negative value that can be represented in the
decimal column or variable, depending on the rounding mode.
Note: Decimal
refers to both packed and zoned decimal. A binary integer with scale
follows the rules for a assignments to decimal.
Note: When fetching
decimal data from a file that was not created by an SQL CREATE
TABLE statement, a decimal field may contain data that is not valid.
In this case, the data will be returned as stored, without any warning
or error message being issued. A table that is created by the SQL
CREATE TABLE statement does not allow decimal data that is not valid.
Assignments to floating-pointFloating-point
numbers are approximations of real numbers. Hence, when an integer,
decimal, floating-point, or decimal floating-point number is assigned
to a floating-point column or variable, the result may not be identical
to the original number. The number is rounded to the precision of
the floating-point column or variable using floating-point arithmetic.
Assignments to decimal floating-pointWhen
an integer number is assigned to a decimal floating-point column or
variable, the number is first converted to a temporary decimal number
and then to a decimal floating-point number. The precision and scale
of the temporary decimal number is 5,0 for a small integer, 11,0 for
a large integer, or 19,0 for a big integer. Rounding may occur when
assigning a BIGINT to a DECFLOAT(16) column or variable.
When
a decimal number is assigned to a decimal floating-point column or
variable, the number is converted to the precision (16 or 34) of the
target. Leading zeros are eliminated. Depending on the precision and
scale of the decimal number and the precision of the target, the value
might be rounded.
When a floating-point number is assigned to
a decimal floating-point column or variable, the number is first converted
to a temporary string representation of the floating-point number.
The string representation of the number is then converted to decimal
floating-point.
When a DECFLOAT(16) number is assigned to a
DECFLOAT(34) column or variable, the resulting value is identical
to the DECFLOAT(16) number.
When a DECFLOAT(34) number is assigned
to a DECFLOAT(16) column or variable, the exponent of the source is
converted to the corresponding exponent in the result format. The
mantissa of the DECFLOAT(34) number is rounded to the precision of
the target. For more information about the decimal floating-point
rounding mode, see CURRENT DECFLOAT ROUNDING MODE.
Assignments to COBOL and RPG integersAssignment
to COBOL and RPG small or large integer host variables takes into
account any scale specified for the host variable. However, assignment
to integer host variables uses the full size of the integer. Thus,
the value placed in the COBOL data item or RPG field might be larger
than the maximum precision specified for the host variable.
Examples:In COBOL, assume that COL1 contains a value of 12345. The following
SQL statement results in the value 12345 being placed in A, even though
A has been defined with only 4 digits: 01 A PIC S9999 BINARY.
EXEC SQL SELECT COL1
INTO :A
FROM TABLEX
END-EXEC.

Notice, however, that the following COBOL statement results in
2345 (and not 12345) being placed in A: MOVE 12345 TO A.

Assignments from strings to numericWhen
a string is assigned to a numeric data type, it is converted to the
target numeric data type using the rules for a CAST specification.
For more information, see CAST specification.

Parent topic: Assignments and comparisons