INDEX Phrase

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—Data Description Entry > USAGE Clause > USAGE Clause

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—Data Description Entry > USAGE Clause

INDEX Phrase
A data item defined with the INDEX phrase is an index
data item.
An index data item is a 4-byte elementary item (not
necessarily connected with any table) that can be used to save index-name
values for future reference. Through a SET statement, an index data item can
be assigned an index-name value.
The index-name value is the displacement, which corresponds to an occurrence
number in the table. The index-name value equals:
(occurrence-number - 1) * entry length

Any attempt to set an index-name to a value greater than 999 999 999
will leave the index-name value undefined.
Direct references to an index data item can be made only in a SEARCH statement,
a SET statement, a relation condition, the USING phrase of the Procedure Division
header, or the USING phrase of the CALL statement.
An index data item can be part of a group item referred to in a MOVE statement
or an input/output statement.
An index data item saves values that represent table occurrences, yet is
not necessarily defined as part of any table. Thus, when it is referred to
directly in a SEARCH or SET statement, or indirectly in a MOVE or input/output
statement, there is no conversion of values when the statement is executed.
The USAGE IS INDEX clause may be written at any level. If a group item
is described with the USAGE IS INDEX clause, the elementary items within the
group are index data items; the group itself is not an index data item, and
the group name may not be used in SEARCH and SET statements or in relation conditions. The USAGE clause of an
elementary item cannot contradict the USAGE clause of a group to which the
item belongs.
An index data item cannot be a conditional variable.
The JUSTIFIED, PICTURE, BLANK WHEN ZERO, SYNCHRONIZED, TYPE, VALUE, or FORMAT clauses
cannot be used to describe group or elementary items described with the USAGE
IS INDEX clause.
If a source program is to be portable to other systems, it must not depend
on the content of the index data item when stored in external records (since
the content is system specific).

Parent topic: USAGE Clause