REGEXP_COUNT

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

REGEXP_COUNT
The REGEXP_COUNT function returns a count of the number
of times that a regular expression pattern is matched in a string.
REGEXP_COUNT(source-string,pattern-expression,start,flags)
source-string
An expression that specifies the string in which the search is
to take place. The expression must return a value that is a built-in
character string, graphic string, numeric, or datetime data type.
If the value is not a UTF-16 DBCLOB, it is implicitly cast to a UTF-16
DBCLOB before searching for the regular expression pattern. A character
string with the FOR BIT DATA attribute or a binary string is not supported.
The length of a string must not be greater than 1 gigabyte.
pattern-expression
An expression that specifies the regular expression string that
is the pattern for the search. The expression must return a value
that is a built-in character string, graphic string, numeric, or datetime
data type. If the value is not a UTF-16 DBCLOB, it is implicitly cast
to a UTF-16 DBCLOB before searching for the regular expression pattern.
A character string with the FOR BIT DATA attribute or a binary string
is not supported. The length of the string must not be greater than
32K.A valid pattern-expression consists of a set of characters
and control characters that describe the pattern of the search. For
a description of the valid control characters, see Regular expression control characters.

start
An expression that specifies the position within source-string at
which the search is to start. The expression must return a value of
any built-in numeric, character-string, or graphic-string data type.
The argument is cast to INTEGER before evaluating the function. For
more information about converting to INTEGER, see INTEGER or INT. The value of the integer must
be greater than or equal to 1. If the value of the integer is greater
than the actual length of the source-string, the result is
0.

flags
An expression that specifies flags that control aspects of the
pattern matching. The expression must return a value that is a built-in
character string or graphic string data type. A character string with
the FOR BIT DATA attribute or a binary string is not supported. The
string can include one or more valid flag values and the combination
of flag values must be valid. An empty string is the same as the value
'c'. For a description of the valid flag characters, see Regular expression flag values.

The result of the function is an INTEGER representing
the number of occurrences of the pattern-expression within
the source-string. If the pattern-expression is not
found and no argument is null, the result is 0.
If any argument
of the REGEXP_COUNT function can be null, the result can be null.
If any argument is null, the result is the null value.
NotesPrerequisites: In
order to use the REGEXP_COUNT function, the International Components
for Unicode (ICU) option must be installed
Processing: The
regular expression processing is done using the International Components
for Unicode (ICU) regular expression interface. For more information
see, http://userguide.icu-project.org/strings/regexp.
If only
three arguments are specified, the third argument may be a start or flags argument.
If the third argument is a string, it is interpreted as a flags argument.
Otherwise, it is interpreted as a start argument.
Syntax
Alternatives: REGEXP_MATCH_COUNT is a synonym for REGEXP_COUNT.
ExampleCount the number of times "Steven" or "Stephen" occurs in the
string "Steven Jones and Stephen Smith are the best players".SELECT REGEXP_COUNT(
'Steven Jones and Stephen Smith are the best players',
'Ste(v|ph)en')
FROM sysibm.sysdummy1
The result is 2.

Parent topic: Scalar functions