SEV parameter

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters > Commonly used parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters

SEV parameter
The severity (SEV) parameter specifies a severity code.
The severity (SEV) parameter specifies the severity code that:
Describes the level of severity associated with an error message.
Indicates the minimum severity level that causes a message to be returned
to a user or program.
Causes a batch job to end.
Causes processing of a command to end if a syntax error of sufficient
severity occurs.

Note: The LOG parameter on some commands also uses these severity codes
for logging purposes (to control which job activity messages and error messages
are logged in the job log).
The severity code is a 2-digit number
that can range from 00 through 99. The higher the value, the more severe or
important the condition. The severity code of a message that is sent to a
user indicates the severity of the condition described by the message. More
than one message can have the same severity code. If a severity code is not
specified for a predefined message, it is assumed to be 00 (information only).
You
can specify a severity code for any message when it is defined by the Add
Message Description (ADDMSGD) command. To change the severity code
of a message, use the Change Message Description (CHGMSGD) command.
IBM
-defined severity codes are used in all of the IBM -supplied messages that
are shipped with the system.
00 - Information:
A message of this severity is for information purposes only; no error
was detected and no reply is needed. The message could indicate that a function
is in progress or that it has reached a successful completion.
10 - Warning:
A message of this severity indicates a potential error condition. The
program may have taken a default, such as supplying missing input. The results
of the operation are assumed to be what was intended.
20 - Error:
An error has been detected, but it is one for which automatic recovery
procedures probably were applied, and processing has continued. A default
may have been taken to replace input that was in error. The results of the
operation may not be valid. The function may be only partially complete; for
example, some items in a list may be processed correctly while others may
fail.
30 - Severe Error:
The error detected is too severe for automatic recovery, and no defaults
are possible. If the error was in source data, the entire input record was
skipped. If the error occurred during program processing, it leads to an abnormal
end of the program (severity 40). The results of the operation are not valid.
40 - Abnormal End of Program or Function:
The operation has ended, possibly because it was unable to handle invalid
data, or possibly because the user ended it.
50 - Abnormal End of Job:
The job was ended or was not started. A routing step may have ended abnormally
or failed to start, a job-level function may not have been performed as required,
or the job may have been ended.
60 - System Status:
A message of this severity is issued only to the system operator. It gives
either the status of or a warning about a device, a subsystem, or the whole
system.
70 - Device Integrity:
A message of this severity is issued only to the system operator. It indicates
that a device is malfunctioning or in some way is no longer operational. You
may be able to restore system operation, or the assistance of a service representative
may be required.
80 - System Alert:
A message of this severity is issued only to the system operator. It warns
of a condition that, although not severe enough to stop the system now, could
become more severe unless preventive measures are taken.
90 - System Integrity:
A message of this severity is issued only to the system operator. It describes
a condition that renders either a subsystem or the whole system inoperative.
99 - Action:
A message of this severity indicates that some manual action is required,
such as specifying a reply or changing printer forms.

Parent topic: Commonly used parameters

Related tasks
Assigning a severity code