Remove Nickname (RMVNCK)

Remove Nickname (RMVNCK)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Remove Nickname (RMVNCK) command is used to remove an existing nickname from the system distribution directory. When the removed nickname is no longer available for use, the job issuing this command has ended.

A nickname is a short version of either a directory entry name or a distribution list name. More information about nicknames is in the SNA Distribution Services book, SC41-5410.

Restrictions:

- You must have security administrator (*SECADM) authority to remove a public nickname that you do not own. No special authority is needed for you to remove a public or private nickname that you own.

- Only the owner can remove a private nickname. No special authority is needed.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
NCK | Nickname | Element list | Required, Positional 1
Element 1: Nickname | Character value
Element 2: Access | *PRIVATE, *PUBLIC

Top

Nickname (NCK)

Specifies the existing nickname that is being removed and the access of the nickname.

The possible nickname value is:

nickname
Specify the nickname you are removing.

The possible nickname access values are:

*PRIVATE
The private nickname that you own is being removed.

*PUBLIC
The public nickname is being removed. Public nicknames can be removed by a user with security administrator (*SECADM) authority or by the owner.

This is a required parameter.

Top

Examples

RMVNCK NCK(SEC44A *PUBLIC)

This command removes the public nickname SEC44A. If the user has proper authority to the nickname, the nickname is removed.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF8AA1
Library QUSRSYS not completely installed.

CPF8360
Not enough storage for commitment control operation.

CPF9A89
Nickname function not successful.

CPF905C
Error occurred trying to find a translation table.

CPF9838
User profile storage limit exceeded.

Top