NATIONAL-OF

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Intrinsic Functions > Intrinsic Functions

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Intrinsic Functions

NATIONAL-OF
The NATIONAL-OF function returns a national character string consisting
of the UCS-2 representation of the characters in argument-1. The
type of the function is national.

Format 1: Specify source CCSID

>>-FUNCTION NATIONAL-OF--(--argument-1--+------------+--)------><
    '-argument-2-'    

argument-1
Must be of class alphabetic, alphanumeric, or DBCS. Argument-1
identifies the source string for the conversion.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension argument-2 End of IBM Extension
IBM Extension Must be an integer. Argument-2 identifies the source code
page for the conversion. Argument-2 must be a valid CCSID number identifying
an EBCDIC, ASCII, UTF-8, or EUC code page. The EBCDIC or ASCII CCSID
can identify a code page that is SBCS, DBCS, or mixed SBCS/DBCS.
If
argument-2 is omitted, the source code page is the one in effect for
the CCSID compiler option when the source code was compiled. If the
source code page is 65535, then default CCSID 37 will be used.
End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension
The returned value is a national character string
consisting of the characters of argument-1 converted to national character
representation (UCS-2 CCSID specified in the National CCSID compiler
option or in the NTLCCSID PROCESS option). See "Conversions
and Precision" in the IBM® Rational® Development
Studio for i: ILE COBOL Programmer's Guide for more information.
When a source character cannot be converted to a national character,
the source character is converted to the system-defined substitution
character X'FFFD'. No exception condition is raised.
The length of the returned value depends on the content of argument-1
and the characteristics of the source code page.
Exceptions: If the conversion fails, a severe run-time error occurs. Verify that the conversion from the source CCSID to the
target CCSID (CCSID specified in the National CCSID compiler option
or in the NTLCCSID PROCESS option) is supported on the operating system.

Format 2: Specify user substitution character

>>-FUNCTION NATIONAL-OF--(--argument-1--argument-3--)----------><

argument-1
Must be of class alphabetic, alphanumeric, or DBCS. Argument-1
identifies the source string for the conversion.
argument-3
Must be a national literal or national data item with one character
position in length. Argument-3 specifies a national substitution
character used in conversion of alphanumeric characters for which
there is no corresponding national character.
The source code
page is the one in effect for the CCSID compiler option when the source
code was compiled. If the CCSID compiler option is 65535, then default
CCSID 37 will be used.
The returned value is a
national character string consisting of the characters of argument-1
converted to national character representation (CCSID specified in
the National CCSID compiler option or in the NTLCCSID PROCESS option).
When a source character cannot be converted to a national character,
the source character is converted to the user substitution character
argument-3. No exception condition is raised.
The length of
the returned value depends on the content of argument-1 and the characteristics
of the source code page.
Exceptions: If the conversion fails,
a severe run-time error occurs. Verify that the conversion from the
source ccsid to the target CCSID (UCS-2) is supported on the operating
system.

Parent topic: Intrinsic Functions