Large objects

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Data types > Data types

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Data types

Large objects
The term large object and the generic acronym LOB are
used to refer to any CLOB, DBCLOB, or BLOB data type.
Manipulating large objects with
locatorsSince
LOB values can be very large, the transfer of these values from the
database server to client application program variables can be time
consuming. Also, application programs typically process LOB values
a piece at a time, rather than as a whole. For these cases, the
application can reference a LOB value via a large object locator
(LOB locator). 1
A large object locator or LOB locator is a variable
with a value that represents a single LOB value in the database server.
LOB locators were developed to provide users with a mechanism by which
they could easily manipulate very large objects in application programs
without requiring them to store the entire LOB value on the client
machine where the application program may be running.
For example, when selecting a LOB value, an application
program could select the entire LOB value and place it into an equally
large variable (which is acceptable if the application program is
going to process the entire LOB value at once), or it could instead
select the LOB value into a LOB locator. Then, using the LOB locator,
the application program can issue subsequent database operations on
the LOB value by supplying the locator value as input. The resulting
output of the locator operation, for example the amount of data assigned
to a client variable, would then typically be a small subset of the
input LOB value.
LOB locators may also represent more than just base values;
they can also represent the value associated with a LOB expression.
For example, a LOB locator might represent the value associated with:
SUBSTR(lob_value_1 CONCAT lob_value_2 CONCAT lob_value_3, 42, 6000000)

For non-locator-based host variables in an application
program, when a null value is selected into that host variable, the
indicator variable is set to -1, signifying that the value is null.
In the case of LOB locators, however, the meaning of indicator variables
is slightly different. Since a LOB locator host variable itself can
never be null, a negative indicator variable value indicates that
the LOB value represented by the LOB locator is null. The null information
is kept local to the client by virtue of the indicator variable value
-- the server does not track null values with valid LOB locators.
It is important to understand that a LOB locator represents
a value, not a row or location in the database. Once a value is selected
into a LOB locator, there is no operation that one can perform on
the original row or table that will affect the value which is referenced
by the LOB locator. The value associated with a LOB locator is valid
until the transaction ends, or until the LOB locator is explicitly
freed, whichever comes first.
A LOB locator is only a mechanism used to refer to a LOB
value during a transaction; it does not persist beyond the transaction
in which it was created. Also, it is not a database type; it is never
stored in the database and, as a result, cannot participate in views
or check constraints. However, since a locator is a representation
of a LOB type, there are SQLTYPEs for LOB locators so that they can
be described within an SQLDA structure that is used by FETCH, OPEN,
CALL, and EXECUTE statements.
For the restrictions that apply to the use of LOB strings,
see Limitations on use of strings.

Limitations on use of strings
Some varying-length string data types cannot be referenced
in certain contexts.

Parent topic: Data types

1 There is no ability within a Java™ application to distinguish between a CLOB
or BLOB that is represented by a LOB locator and one that is not.