QHST job start and completion messages

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Log messages > QHST history log > QHST history log

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Log messages > QHST history log

QHST job start and completion messages
The system performs special formatting of the job start
and job completion messages.
For message CPF1124 (job start) and message CPF1164 (job completion),
the message data always begins in position 11 of the third record.
Job accounting provides more information than CPF1124 and CPF1164.
For simple job accounting functions, use the CPF1164 message.
Performance information is not displayed as text on message CPF1164.
Because the message is in the QHST log, users can write application
programs to retrieve this data. The format of this performance information
is as follows.
The performance information is passed as a variable length replacement
text value. This means that the data is in a structure with the first
entry being the length of the data. The size of the length field is
not included in the length. The first data fields in the structure
are the times and dates that the job entered the system and when the
first routing step for the job was started. The times are in the format
'hh:mm:ss'. The separators are always colons. The dates are in the
format defined in the system value QDATFMT and the separators are
in the system value QDATSEP. The time and date the job entered the
system precede the job start time and date in the structure.
The time and date the job entered the system are when the system
becomes aware of a job to be initiated (a job structure is set aside
for the job). For an interactive job, the job entry time is the time
the password is recognized by the system. For a batch job, it is
the time the Batch Job (BCHJOB) or Submit
Job (SBMJOB) command is processed. For a monitor job, reader
or writer, it is the time the corresponding start command is processed,
and for autostart jobs it is during the start of the subsystem.
Following the times and dates are the total response time and the
number of transactions. The total response time is in seconds and
contains the accumulated value of all the intervals the job was processing
between pressing the Enter key at the workstation and when the next
display is shown. This information is similar to that shown on the
WRKACTJOB display. This field is only meaningful for interactive
jobs.
It is also possible in the case of a system failure or abnormal
job end that the last transaction will not be included in the total.
The job end code in this case would be a 40 or greater. The transaction
count is also only meaningful for interactive jobs other than the
console job and is the number of response time intervals counted by
the system during the job.
The number of synchronous auxiliary I/O operations follows the
number of transactions. This is the same as the AUXIO field that
appears on the WRKACTJOB display except that this value is the total
for the job. If the job ends with a end code of 70, this value may
not contain the count for the final routing step. Additionally, if
a job exists across an IPL (using a Transfer Batch Job (TFRBCHJOB) command)
it is ended before becoming active following an IPL, the value is
0.
The final field in the performance statistics is the job type.
Values for this field are:
A
Automatically started job
B
Batch job
I
Interactive job
M
Subsystem monitor
R
Spooling reader
S
System job
W
Spooling writer
X
Start job

For messages in which the message data begins in a variable position,
you can access the message data by doing the following:
Determine the length of the variables in the message. For example,
assume that a message uses the following five variables: Job name *CHAR 10
User name *CHAR 10
Job number *CHAR 6
Time *CHAR 8
Date *CHAR 8
These variables are fixed in the first 42 positions
of the message data.

To find the location of the message data, consider that: The message begins in position 11
of the second record. If the message identifier or the message file
could not be found at the time the message entry was copied to the
QHST data base file, there will only be one record in the file; there
will be no second record containing the message or the message data.
The length of the message is stored in a 2-position field beginning
at position 111 of the first record. This length is stored in a binary
value so if the message length is 60, the field contains hexadecimal 003C.

Then, by using the length of the message and the start position
of the message, you can determine the location of the message data.

Parent topic: QHST history log