CREATE PROCEDURE

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

CREATE PROCEDURE
The CREATE PROCEDURE statement defines a procedure at the
current server.
The following types of procedures can be defined:
External The procedure program or service program is
written in a programming language such as C, COBOL, or Java™. The external executable is referenced
by a procedure defined at the current server along with various attributes
of the procedure. See CREATE PROCEDURE (external).

SQL The procedure is written exclusively in SQL. The procedure
body is defined at the current server along with various attributes
of the procedure. See CREATE PROCEDURE (SQL).

NotesChoosing
data types for parameters: For portability of procedures
across platforms that are not DB2® for
i, do not use the following
data types, which might have different representations on different
platforms:
FLOAT. Use DOUBLE or REAL instead.
NUMERIC. Use DECIMAL instead.

Specifying AS LOCATOR for a parameter: Passing
a locator instead of a value can result in fewer bytes being passed
in or out of the procedure. This can be useful when the value of the
parameter is very large. The AS LOCATOR clause specifies that a locator
to the value of the parameter is passed instead of the actual value.
Specify AS LOCATOR only for parameters with a LOB or
XML data type or a distinct type based on a LOB or XML data type.
AS LOCATOR cannot be specified for SQL procedures.
Determining the uniqueness of procedures in a schema: At
the current server, each procedure signature must be unique. The signature
of a procedure is the qualified procedure name combined with the number
of the parameters (the data types of the parameters are not part of
a procedure's signature). This means that two different schemas can
each contain a procedure with the same name that have the same number
of parameters. However, a schema must not contain two procedures with
the same name that have the same number of parameters.
The specific name for a procedure: When defining multiple procedures with
the same name and schema (with different number of parameters), it
is recommended that a specific name also be specified. The specific
name can be used to uniquely identify the procedure when dropping,
granting to, revoking from, or commenting on the procedure.
If specific-name is not specified,
it is the same as the procedure name. If a function or procedure with
that specific name already exists, a unique name is generated similar
to the rules used to generate unique table names.
Special registers in procedures: The settings of
the special registers of the caller are inherited by the procedure
when called and restored upon return to the caller. Special registers
may be changed within a procedure, but these changes do not affect
the caller.

Parent topic: Statements