Restore DLO using BRM (RSTDLOBRM)

Restore DLO using BRM (RSTDLOBRM)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Restore DLO using BRM (RSTDLOBRM) command restores documents, folder and distribution objects (mail) to the system from tape or save files. The media policy in force when the media information was saved determines whether this information resides on tape or is stored in save files.

Note: Using the RSTDLOBRM command allows you to restore selected copies of document, folder and distribution objects to the system based on the number of copies that are in the BRMS media content information. This is accomplished by specifying a copy number for the Save level (SAVLVL) parameter.

Note: The save must have been performed with object level detail.

Virtual media and devices can be used with this command. The following restrictions apply to the use of virtual media and virtual devices.

- The Device (DEV) parameter is limited on only one device or *MEDCLS special value for serial operations.

- Execute authority is required to the Load or Unload Image Catalog (LODIMGCLG) command.

- *CHANGE authority is required to the image catalogs.

- Execute (*X) authority is required to each directory in the image catalog path name.

- Read, write, execute (*RWX) authority is required to each image file in the parent directory that will be loaded or mounted.

- *USE authority is required to the virtual devices using the image catalogs.

To use this command, you must have the Backup Recovery and Media Services for IBM i licensed program installed.

Restrictions:

- To use this command, you must be enrolled in the system distribution directory.

- You must have authority to the Restore Document Library Object (RSTDLO) command to use this command.

- You must have *CHANGE authority to the parent folder and *ALL authority to the document if it already exists on the system.

- You must have *EXECUTE authority to the document library.

- You cannot run another RSTDLOBRM, RSTDLO, SAVDLOBRM, SAVDLO or Reclaim Document Library Object (RCLDLO) command specifying DLO(*ALL) while this command is running.

- You can restore data from a TSM server device by using this command. You can only specify one TSM device or *MEDCLS, which must select a TSM device. The TSM device selected can either be *APPC, which supports the SNA network protocol, or *NET, which supports the TCP/IP protocol.

- *ALLOBJ special authority is required to use any value other than *NONE for the ALWOBJDIF parameter.

- This command should not be used by control group *EXIT item processing as results will be unpredictable.

- You can restore data from an optical device by using this command. You can only specify one optical device or *MEDCLS, which must select an optical device.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
DLO | Document library object | Character value, *ALL | Required, Positional 1
SAVFLR | Saved folder | Character value | Required, Positional 2
DEV | Device | Name, *MEDCLS | Required, Positional 3
RSTFLR | Restore into folder | Character value, *SAME | Optional
RENAME | New object name | Character value, *SAME | Optional
SAVLVL | Save level | 1-99, *CURRENT | Optional
ENDOPT | End of media option | *REWIND, *LEAVE, *UNLOAD | Optional
NEWOBJ | Object name generation | *SAME, *NEW | Optional
ALWOBJDIF | Allow object differences | *NONE, *ALL | Optional
RSTASP | Restore to ASP | Character value, *SAVASP, *SYSTEM | Optional
FROMSYS | From system | Character value, *LCL | Optional

Top

Document library object (DLO)

Specifies the name of the document library object that you want to restore. This is a required parameter.

*ALL
All documents, folders and distribution objects (mail) that are saved on media and meet the criteria specified on the Saved folder (SAVFLR) parameter are restored.

document-name
Specify the name of the document library object that you want to restore.

Top

Saved folder (SAVFLR)

Specifies the name of the folder on the media from which the documents are restored.

This is a required field.

Top

Device (DEV)

Specifies the device name or a specific media class that is to be used to restore the object. You must use a single device that is known to the system for recovery processing.

You can restore data from a TSM (ADSM) server using this command. You can only specify one TSM type server or *MEDCLS, which must select a TSM server. The device selected can either be *APPC, which supports SNA network protocol, or *NET, which supports TCPIP protocol.

*MEDCLS
BRMS determines the media class of the media on which the requested item is saved. Once the media class is determined, a device supporting that media class is selected to restore the requested object or objects.

device-name
Specify the name of the device that you want to use to restore the selected object or objects.

Top

Restore into folder (RSTFLR)

Specifies the name of the folder in which the restored folders and documents to be restored will be placed. The folder must exist on the system or when *ALL is specified on the Document library object (DL0) parameter, the saved folder must exist on the media.

*SAME
The folders and documents to be restored are placed into the same folder from which they were saved.

restore-folder-name
Specify the name of the folder where the restored documents and folders are to be placed.

Top

New object name (RENAME)

Specifies the new user-assigned name for the restored document.

*SAME
The document is restored with the name it had when it was saved.

document-name
Specify the new user-assigned name that the document had after being restored.

Note: You cannot specify a document name if you specify *ALL in the Document library object (DLO) parameter.

Top

Save level (SAVLVL)

Specifies the copy of the object that you want to restore from the media content information.

*CURRENT
The most current copy of the object is restored.

save-level-number
Specify the age of the copy that you want to restore from the media content information. You can specify a copy number from 1 - 99. For instance, if you want to restore the next to the last most recent copy specify 1.

Top

End of media option (ENDOPT)

Specifies the operation that is automatically done on the tape or optical volume after the save operation ends. If more than one volume is included, this parameter applies only to the last volume used; all other volumes are rewound and unloaded when the end of the volume is reached.

Note: For optical devices, *UNLOAD is the only special value supported, *REWIND and *LEAVE will be ignored.

If you specify *LEAVE and the device is a shared device, the device will not be varied off after the save operation. If you specify *LEAVE and the device is not a shared device, the device will be varied off after the save operation.

*REWIND
The volume is automatically rewound but not unloaded after the recovery operation ends.

*LEAVE
The volume does not rewind or unload after the operation ends. It remains at the current position on the device.

*UNLOAD
The volume is automatically rewound and unloaded after the recovery operation ends.

Top

Object name generation (NEWOBJ)

Specifies whether a new library-assigned name and system object name are generated for the folders and documents being restored.

*SAME
The library-assigned name and system object name do not change.

*NEW
A new library-assigned name and system object name are generated for each document or folder being restored.

Top

Allow object differences (ALWOBJDIF)

Specifies whether differences are allowed between the saved objects and the restored objects.

Note: To use this parameter, you need *ALLOBJ special authority.

*NONE
None of the differences listed above are allowed on the restore operation.

*ALL
All of the differences listed above are allowed on the restore operation. See the description of each individual value to determine how differences are handled.

Top

Restore to ASP (RSTASP)

Specifies the system (1) or basic user auxiliary storage pool (2-32) number to which you want to restore document library objects.

*SAVASP
Restore the saved document library object to the auxiliary storage pool that it resided in when it was saved by BRMS.

*SYSTEM
The document library object is restored to the system (1) auxiliary storage pool.

restore-to-ASP-name
Specify the name of the system (1) or basic user auxiliary storage pool (2-32) to which you are restoring the document library object.

restore-to-ASP-number
Specify the number of the system (1) or basic user auxiliary storage pool (2-32) number to which you want to restore the document library object.

Note: UDFS, primary and secondary auxiliary storage pools are not supported for this parameter.

Top

From system (FROMSYS)

Specifies the location and network identification of the system from which you want to restore media information to the local system.

Note: Use the Display Network Attributes (DSPNETA) command to view the system network attributes.

*LCL
Specifies that the from-system is the local system. BRMS uses the Default local location name (LCLLOCNAME) network attribute and not the System name (SYSNAME) network attribute to determine the current system name. In most cases, the systems have the same value specified for LCLLOCNAME as for SYSNAME.

location-name
Specifies the Default local location name (LCLLOCNAME) network attribute of the remote system for the network operation. The current system Local network ID (LCLNETID) network attribute is used to connect with the remote system.

network-id.location-name
Specifies the Local network ID (LCLNETID) and the Default local location name (LCLLOCNAME) network attributes of the remote system for the network operation. Specify these values using the format nnnnnnnn.cccccccc where nnnnnnnn is the LCLNETID and cccccccc is the LCLLOCNAME.

Top

Examples for RSTDLOBRM

Example 1: Restoring All DLOs in a Subfolder

RSTDLOBRM DLO(*ALL) SAVFLR('ACCTMST/ACCT03')
COPY(*CURRENT) DEV(TAP09)

This command allows you to select and restore folders and subfolders that were saved using the SAVDLOBRM command and whose contents information still exist in the media contents information. In this example, the restore operation is for all DLO with a folder called ACCTMST and a subfolder called ACCT03. The most recent copy is restored using device TAP09.

Top

Error messages for RSTDLOBRM

*ESCAPE Messages

BRM1917
Feature not installed.

BRM1921
Feature not licensed.

BRM2112
ASP &2 not valid.

BRM4040
Access denied for user &1.

BRM40A2
BRMS product initialization required.

CPF3700
All CPF37xx messages could be signaled. xx is from 01 to FF.

CPF3800
All CPF38xx messages could be signaled. xx is from 01 to FF.

CPF9800
All CPF98xx messages could be signaled. xx is from 01 to FF.

Top