Start Cluster Admin Domain (STRCAD)

Start Cluster Admin Domain (STRCAD)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: Yes | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Start Cluster Admin Domain (STRCAD) command enables monitored resource synchronization for the specified cluster administrative domain. The cluster administrative domain will have a status of Active upon successful completion of the command.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority on all nodes in the recovery domain to run this command.

- Cluster Resource Services must be active on the node running the command.

- At least one node in the domain node list must have a membership status of Active.

- The cluster administrative domain status must be either Inactive or Indoubt.

- The cluster resource group CRG is owned by the QCLUSTER user profile. To use the cluster resource group commands with the cluster administrative domain you will need to be authorized to the cluster resource group and to the QCLUSTER user profile.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
ADMDMN | Cluster administrative domain | Name, * | Optional, Positional 1
SRCNODE | Source node | Name, *DEFAULT | Optional
CLUSTER | Cluster | Name, * | Optional

Top

Cluster administrative domain (ADMDMN)

Specifies the cluster administrative domain to be started.

*
The name of the cluster administrative domain that local cluster node is part of is used.

name
Specify the name of the cluster administrative domain.

Top

Source node (SRCNODE)

Specifies the cluster node to be used as the source for any changes that occurred to monitored resources while the administrative domain was inactive. Changes made to monitored resources while the administrative domain was inactive are recorded as pending changes. These will be synchronized throughout the cluster once the administrative domain starts.

The source node must be in the cluster administrative domain and have a node status of active in the cluster.

*DEFAULT
Indicates that no single cluster node will serve as the source node for pending changes to the cluster while the administrative domain is inactive. Pending changes made to monitored resources on all currently active cluster nodes will be processed and synchronized across the nodes.

name
Specify the cluster node to use as the source node for pending changes. Pending changes on the specified cluster node will be synchronized with other active nodes in the cluster administrative domain. Other nodes receive the values from the specified source node.

Top

Cluster (CLUSTER)

Specifies the name of the cluster.

*
The cluster that has been configured on this system is used.

name
Specify the name of the cluster.

Top

Examples for STRCAD

Example 1: Start the local Administrative Domain.

STRCAD

This command starts the cluster administrative domain that the local cluster node is a member of and enables synchronization of the monitored resources.

Example 2: Start a named Administrative Domain.

STRCAD ADMDMN(MYDOMAIN)

This command enables synchronization for the cluster administrative domain MYDOMAIN. The cluster administrative domain will have a status of Active upon successful completion of this command.

Top

Error messages for STRCAD

*ESCAPE Messages

HAE0009
Cluster administrative domain &1 not started.

Top