Save Restore Configuration (SAVRSTCFG)

Save Restore Configuration (SAVRSTCFG)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Save/Restore Configuration (SAVRSTCFG) command saves and restores configuration information without requiring a dedicated system. The information saved and restored includes the following:

- Configuration lists (*CFGL)

- Connection lists (*CNNL)

- Class-of-service descriptions (*COSD)

- Mode descriptions (*MODD)

- NetBIOS descriptions (*NTBD)

The user profile of the system default owner (QDFTOWN) becomes the default owner of any objects being restored in the system when the profile of the owner is not known to the system.

If an object already exists on the restore system, the public and private authorities of the existing object are kept. If the object does not exist in the library, all public authorities are restored, but any private authorities must be granted again.

Notes:

- When the connection type is *IP, this command communicates with remote system using TCP/IP, and Enterprise Extender is not used. The ObjectConnect server is required to be active on the remote system.

- When the connection type is *DB2MIRROR, this command communicates with remote system using the System Object Replication Network Redundancy Group (NRG). The ObjectConnect for Db2 Mirror server is required to be active on the remote system and the System Object Replication NRG is active.

- When the connection type is *SNA, RMTPORT, RMTUSER and RMTPWD are ignored. If an OptiConnect connection is active, OptiConnect is preferred to access the remote system.

Restrictions:

- To use this command, the user must have *SAVSYS authority, or object existence authority for (or be the owner of) each object specified if the object already exists on the system.

- This command is shipped with public *EXCLUDE authority.

- The user must have either *ALLOBJ authority or authority to the command.

- Changes made to the configuration while the SAVRSTCFG command is being run may not be reflected on the restore system, depending on when the changes occurred in relation to the send operation. If the operation cannot obtain a lock on a configuration object, a diagnostic message is issued; and the object is not saved and restored. The operation does not obtain the lock on a configuration object when a change or delete operation against the object does not complete before the default wait timer expires.

- If any system resource manager objects are in use, a message is issued and none of them are saved and restored. The commands which can cause this to happen are Work with Hardware Products (WRKHDWPRD) and Work with Hardware Resources (WRKHDWRSC). No display commands can cause the system resource manager database to lock. All other known functions do read-only operations.

- Both systems intended to participate in the save and restore operation must be connected to the same Remote Direct Memory Access (RDMA) connection, or the interworking ethernet network, or the same APPN network, or if the OptiConnect for IBM i option is to be used, both systems must be joined by the OptiConnect for IBM i hardware and software.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
OBJ | Objects | Single values: *ALL, *SRM
Other values (up to 300 repetitions): Generic name, name | Required, Positional 1
RMTLOCNAME | Remote location name | Character value | Optional, Positional 2
CNNTYPE | Connection type | *SNA, *IP, *DB2MIRROR | Optional
RMTPORT | Remote port | 1-65534, *DFT | Optional
RMTUSER | Remote user ID | Name, *NONE, *SVRAUT, *CURRENT, *KERBEROS | Optional
RMTPWD | Remote password | Character value, *NONE | Optional
OUTPUT | Output | *NONE, *PRINT | Optional
OBJTYPE | Object types | Single values: *ALL
Other values (up to 5 repetitions): *CFGL, *CNNL, *COSD, *MODD, *NTBD | Optional
SRM | System Resource Management | *NONE, *TRA | Optional
PRECHK | Object pre-check | *NO, *YES | Optional
ALWOBJDIF | Allow object differences | Single values: *NONE, *ALL
Other values (up to 3 repetitions): *AUTL, *OWNER, *PGP | Optional

Top

Objects (OBJ)

Specifies the objects to be restored. Specify the name of each object, or the generic name of each group of objects to restore. A generic name is a character string that contains one or more characters followed by an asterisk (*). If an asterisk (*) is not specified with the name, the system assumes that the name is a complete object name.

If the Object types (OBJTYPE) parameter has a value of *ALL, all the object types listed in the description of the OBJTYPE parameter are restored, if they have the specified names.

System resource management (SRM) objects cannot be restored individually or by specifying a generic name. To restore only SRM objects, specify *SRM for this parameter and a value for the System Resource Management (SRM) parameter.

This is a required parameter.

Single values

*ALL
All the device configuration objects are restored, depending on the values specified for the OBJTYPE parameter.

*SRM
The device configuration objects are not restored, but system resource management (SRM) objects are restored based on the SRM parameter value.
ATTENTION You must specify SRM(*NONE) on the RSTCFG, unless the system you are restoring to is the exact same hardware configuration that the original configuration was saved on, to prevent the restore of the SRM information. If the SRM information is restored, the configuration objects may become unusable.

Other values (up to 300 repetitions)

generic-name
Specify one or more generic names of groups of objects in the specified library to restore.

Note: A generic name is specified as a character string that contains one or more characters followed by an asterisk (*). If a generic name is specified, then all objects that have names with the same prefix as the generic object name are selected.

name
Specify one or more names of specific objects to restore. Both generic names and specific names can be specified in the same command. A maximum of 300 object names can be specified.

Top

Remote location (RMTLOCNAME)

Specifies the remote system and the type of connection used to connect to the remote system.

This is a required parameter when CNNTYPE is *IP or *SNA.

character-value
The syntax for this element is dependent on the value specified for the second element:

- When the connection type is *SNA, specify the name of the remote system using the format nnnnnnnn.cccccccc, where nnnnnnnn is the network identifier (ID) and cccccccc is the remote location name. If no network ID is specified, the network attributes are used to determine the default network ID.

- When the connection type is *IP, specify a host name or an internet address to identify the remote system. Host names must follow these conventions:

The first character must be either A through Z or 0 through 9.

The last character must be either A through Z, 0 through 9, or a period (.).

Blanks ( ) are not allowed.

The special characters, period (.), underscore (_), and minus (-) are allowed.

Parts of the name separated by periods (.) cannot exceed 63 characters in length.

Note: Each part of the name separated by periods (.) must begin and end with an English alphabetic character or a numeric character.

Names must be from 1 to 255 characters in length.

The IPv4 address is specified in the form nnn.nnn.nnn.nnn where nnn is a decimal number ranging from 0 through 255. An IPv4 Internet address is not valid if it has a value of all binary ones or all binary zeros for the network identifier (ID) portion or the host ID portion of the address.

The IPv6 address is specified in the form x:x:x:x:x:x:x:x where x is a hexadecimal number ranging from 0 through X'FFFF'. "::" may be used once in the IPv6 address to indicate one or more groups of 16 bits of zeros. The "::" may be used to compress leading, imbedded, or trailing zeros in the address.

If the Internet address is entered from a command line, the address must be enclosed in single quotation marks.

Top

Connection type (CNNTYPE)

Specifies the type of connection with the remote system.

*SNA
The remote system is accessed using a Systems Network Architecture (SNA) address and protocol.

*IP
The remote system is accessed using a host name or an internet address over a TCP/IP connection.

*DB2MIRROR
The remote system is accessed using System Object Replication NRG configured by Db2 Mirror GUI or Db2 Mirror services.

Top

Remote port (RMTPORT)

Specifies the port that an application on the remote system is listening on (if it's not the default port for ObjectConnect server).

Note: When CNNTYPE is *DB2MIRROR, do not specify RMTPORT.

*DFT
This default value uses the port configured in TCPIP service table.

1-65534
Specify the port number to be used. This must be the specific port the ObjectConnect server is listening on. Otherwise, the remote host will reject the open attempt.

Top

Remote user ID (RMTUSER)

Specifies the user ID that is sent to the remote system.

Note: When CNNTYPE is *DB2MIRROR, do not specify RMTUSER parameter. The current thread effective user profile will be sent to remote system.

*NONE
No user ID is sent.

*SVRAUT
The user ID stored in the server authentication table (SVRAUT) is sent.

Note: The user profile of the job issuing this command and the RMTLOCNAME are used to obtain the user ID and user password from the SVRAUT table. The user ID and user password are specified in the RMTUSER and RMTPWD are used to authenticate with the ObjectConnect server.

It is required that the QRETSVRSEC system value is set 1 to store the user password and the server name in the SVRAUT table are in upper case.

*CURRENT
The current user of the job using this command is sent.

*KERBEROS
Authentication occurs using Kerberos. The default credentials cache file for the current user is used to locate existing Kerberos ticket-granting tickets. The Add Kerberos Ticket (ADDKRBTKT) command or the Qshell kinit tool can be used to create or refresh expired tickets.

Note: Kerberos needs to be configured on both systems for this authentication type to be used.

name
Specify the name of the user ID. The user ID must exist on the remote system.

Top

Remote password (RMTPWD)

Specifies the password to be sent to the remote system.

Note: When CNNTYPE is *DB2MIRROR, do not specify RMTPWD parameter.

character-value
Specify a password to be sent to the remote system to verify the user ID specified for the RMTUSER parameter.

Note: If specifying *SVRAUT or *KERBEROS in RMTUSER parameter, the RMTPWD parameter is ignored.

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether information about the saved and restored objects is printed.

*NONE
No output is created.

*PRINT
Information about the saved objects is printed with the spooled output of the job. Information about the restored objects is printed with the spooled output of the job at the remote location.

Top

Object types (OBJTYPE)

Specifies the types of IBM i system objects that are saved and restored.

*ALL
All configuration object types that are specified by name are saved and restored. If OBJ(*ALL) is specified, all of the configuration objects are saved and restored. The following types can be specified:

*CFGL
All configuration list object types are saved and restored.

*CNNL
All connection list object types are saved and restored.

*COSD
All class-of-service description object types are saved and restored.

*MODD
All mode description object types are saved and restored.

*NTBD
All NetBIOS description object types are saved and restored.

Top

System Resource Management (SRM)

Specifies the type of system resource management (SRM) information to be saved and restored. This parameter is valid only when *ALL or *SRM is specified on the OBJ parameter.

*NONE
No SRM information is restored.

*TRA
All token-ring adapter information is restored.

Top

Object pre-check (PRECHK)

Specifies whether the save configuration operation ends if any of the objects satisfy the following conditions:

- The objects were previously found to be damaged.

- The objects are locked by another job.

- The user does not have authority to save the objects.

*NO
The save operation continues, saving only configuration and system resource management (SRM) objects that can be saved.

*YES
The save operation ends before any data is written to the media if any configuration objects or system resource manager objects cannot be saved.

Top

Allow object differences (ALWOBJDIF)

Specifies whether differences are allowed between the saved objects and the restored objects.

Notes:

- You must have all object (*ALLOBJ) special authority to specify any value other than *NONE for this parameter.

- If differences are found, the final message for the restore operation is an escape message rather than the normal completion message.

The types of differences include:

- Authorization list: The saved object had an authorization list, and either the object exists on the system but does not have the same authorization list, or the object does not exist and it is being restored to a different system than the save system.

Note: This parameter has no effect when the saved object did not have an authorization list. If the object exists, it is restored with the authorization list of the existing object. If it does not exist, it is restored with no authorization list.

- Ownership: The owner of an object on the system is different than the owner of an object from the save operation.

- Primary Group: The primary group of an object on the system is different than the primary group of an object from the save operation.

Single values

*NONE
None of the differences listed above are allowed on the restore operation. See the description of each individual value to determine how differences are handled.

*ALL
All of the differences listed above are allowed on the restore operation. See the description of each individual value to determine how differences are handled.

Other values (up to 3 repetitions)

*AUTL
Authorization list differences are allowed. If the saved object had an authorization list and the object exists on the system but does not have the same authorization list, the object is restored with the authorization list of the existing object. If the saved object had an authorization list and the object does not exist and it is being restored to a different system than the save system, the object is restored and it is linked to the authorization list. If the authorization list does not exist, the public authority is set to *EXCLUDE.
If this value is not specified, authorization list differences are not allowed. If the saved object had an authorization list and the object exists on the system but does not have the same authorization list, the object is not restored. If the saved object had an authorization list and the object does not exist and it is being restored to a different system than the save system, the object is restored, but it is not linked to the authorization list, and the public authority is set to *EXCLUDE.

*OWNER
Ownership differences are allowed. If an object already exists on the system with a different owner than the saved object, the object is restored with the owner of the object on the system.
If this value is not specified, ownership differences are not allowed. If an object already exists on the system with a different owner than the saved object, the object is not restored.

*PGP
Primary group differences are allowed. If an object already exists on the system with a different primary group than the saved object, the object is restored with the primary group of the object on the system.
If this value is not specified, primary group differences are not allowed. If an object already exists on the system with a different primary group than the saved object, the object is not restored.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Saving and Restoring Generic Objects using *IP with *SVRAUT

SAVRSTCFG OBJ(ABCD*) CNNTYPE(*IP) RMTLOCNAME(SYSTEM1)
RMTUSER(*SVRAUT)
OBJTYPE(*CFGL) ALWOBJDIF(*NONE)

This command saves and restores all objects whose names begin with ABCD and whose object type is configuration list (*CFGL). Only those objects that have no differences on SYSTEM1 will be restored using connection type *IP with valid user profile and password which are retrieved from SVRAUT table using current user profile and server name SYSTEM1.

Example 2: Saving and Restoring Generic Objects using *IP with user profile and password

SAVRSTCFG OBJ(ABCD*) CNNTYPE(*IP) RMTLOCNAME(SYSTEM1)
RMTUSER(USRPRF1) RMTPWD(MYPASSWORD)
OBJTYPE(*CFGL) ALWOBJDIF(*NONE)

This command saves and restores all objects whose names begin with ABCD and whose object type is configuration list (*CFGL). Only those objects that have no differences on SYSTEM1 will be restored using connection type *IP with valid user profile USRPRF1 and password MYPASSWORD.

Example 3: Saving and Restoring All Objects using *IP with Kerberos

SAVRSTCFG OBJ(*ALL) CNNTYPE(*IP) RMTLOCNAME(SYSTEM1)
RMTUSER(*KERBEROS)

This command saves and restores all configuration objects whose types match the five object types listed on the OBJTYPE parameter using connection type *IP and Kerberos ticket-granting tickets in default credentials cache file.

Example 4: Saving and Restoring Generic Objects using *DB2MIRROR

SAVRSTCFG OBJ(ABCD*) CNNTYPE(*DB2MIRROR)
OBJTYPE(*CFGL) ALWOBJDIF(*NONE)

This command saves and restores all objects whose names begin with ABCD and whose object type is configuration list (*CFGL). Only those objects that have no differences on the mirrorred system will be restored using connection type *DB2MIRROR.

Example 5: Saving and Restoring Generic Objects using *SNA

SAVRSTCFG OBJ(ABCD*) RMTLOCNAME(SYSTEM1) OBJTYPE(*CFGL)
ALWOBJDIF(*NONE)

This command saves and restores all objects whose names begin with ABCD and whose object type is configuration list (*CFGL). Only those objects that have no differences on SYSTEM1 will be restored using connection type *SNA.

Example 6: Saving and Restoring All Objects using *SNA

SAVRSTCFG OBJ(*ALL) RMTLOCNAME(SYSTEM1)

This command saves and restores all configuration objects whose types match the five object types listed on the OBJTYPE parameter to remote system SYSTEM1 using connection type *SNA.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPCAD80
&1 objects saved and restored.

CPFAD8D
An error occurred during the &1 operation.

CPFAD80
Unable to establish connection from &1 to &2.

CPFAD81
User profile &1 not found on remote location &2.

CPFAD82
Remote location &1 not found.

CPFAD83
Remote location &1 cannot be source location.

CPFAD84
ObjectConnect internal error, function code &1, return code &2.

CPFAD86
Location name &1 unable to close &2.

CPFAD88
Unable to establish connection from &1 to &2.

CPFAD93
APPC failure. Failure code is &3.

CPF389C
ObjectConnect ended, function code &1, return code &2.

CPDCB0A
Error occurred during the &1 operation.

Top