Considerations for External Files

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—File and Sort Description Entries > EXTERNAL Clause > EXTERNAL Clause

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—File and Sort Description Entries > EXTERNAL Clause

Considerations for External Files
In general, all definitions of an external file should be identical. If
there is a mismatch, the program will fail at start up when the definitions
are compared. The following attributes of external files are compared:
If any of the definitions corresponding to the file are externally described
(for example, by using Format 2 of the COPY statement), all other definitions
must also be externally described. The level check information associated
with all definitions must match.
The name specified on the ASSIGN TO clause must be the same for all definitions.
This includes the device type.
The ORGANIZATION and ACCESS modes must be the same for all definitions
of the file.
The OPTIONAL phrase, if specified, must be specified for all definitions
of the file.
The external data item specified for the RELATIVE KEY phrase must be in
the same physical location and occupy the same number of bytes for all definitions
of the file.
The location of the record key within the associated record must be the
same for all definitions of the file.
The blocking information associated with the file must be the same for
all file definitions. This includes whether blocking is to be performed and
the size of the block.
The values for the maximum or minimum number of characters on the RECORD
clause must be the same for all definitions of the file.
The character set specified on the CODE-SET clause must be the same for
all definitions of the file.
The value specified for the DUPLICATES phrase must be the same for all
definitions of the file.
All of the values specified for the LINAGE clause must be the same for
each definition of the file.
The specification of the attribute for the ASSIGN clause (separate indicators)
must be the same for all definitions of the file.
The specification for the COMMITMENT CONTROL clause must be the same for
all definitions of the file.
The specification for the *DUPKEYCHK or the *INZDLT compile-time option
must be the same for all modules containing definitions of the file.
The specifications of the CCSID parameter for the CRTCBLMOD or CRTBNDCBL
command must be the same for all modules containing definitions of the file.

Parent topic: EXTERNAL Clause