Copy Optical (CPYOPT)

Copy Optical (CPYOPT)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Copy Optical (CPYOPT) command copies a specific file, all files, new files, or changed files in a specified directory to another directory or to another optical volume. This command also allows you to:

- Create a directory in which to copy the files.

- Copy all subdirectories and their files for a specified directory.

- Replace an existing file with the same name.

If the from-volume or the to-volume is a backup optical volume, the names of the directories, the subdirectories, and the files do not change during the copy operation. The creation and modification dates and times of a directory, a subdirectory, or a file also do not change during the copy operation.

Restriction:

- To use this command you must have *USE authority to the authorization list securing the volume being copied (FROMVOL) and *CHANGE authority to the authorization list securing the new volume (TOVOL).

- Only a user with save system (*SAVSYS) special authority can use this command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
FROMVOL | From volume identifier | Element list | Required, Positional 1
Element 1: Volume | Character value
Element 2: Volume type | *PRIMARY, *BACKUP
FROMPATH | From path | Character value | Required, Positional 2
TOVOL | To volume identifier | Element list | Required, Positional 3
Element 1: Volume | Character value, *FROMVOL
Element 2: Volume type | *PRIMARY, *BACKUP
TOPATH | To path | Character value, *FROMPATH | Optional
SLTFILE | Select files to copy | *CHANGED, *NEW, *ALL | Optional
CPYSUBDIR | Copy subdirectories | *NO, *YES | Optional
CRTDIR | Create directory | *NO, *YES | Optional
ALWCPYOPP | Allow copy to opposite side | *NO, *YES | Optional
COPYTYPE | Copy option | *IOP, *SYSTEM | Optional
FROMTIME | Starting date and time | Element list | Optional
Element 1: Starting date | Date, *BEGIN
Element 2: Starting time | Time, *AVAIL

Top

From volume identifier (FROMVOL)

Specifies the volume identifier and the type of the optical volume that contains the directories and the files being copied.

Element 1: Volume

volume-identifier
Specify the identifier of the volume that contains the directories and files being copied.

Element 2: Volume type

*PRIMARY
The optical volume is a primary volume.

*BACKUP
The optical volume is a backup volume.

Top

From path (FROMPATH)

Specifies the path name of the directory or file being copied from the from-volume. If the path name is a directory, all files in the specified directory are copied. If the path name is a file, only that file is copied.

Top

To volume identifier (TOVOL)

Specifies the volume identifier and the type of the optical volume to which the directories and the files are being copied.

Element 1: Volume

*FROMVOL
The volume identifier is the same as the identifier of the optical volume from which the the objects are copied.

volume-identifier
Specify the name of the optical volume to which the objects are copied.

Element 2: Volume type

*PRIMARY
The optical volume is a primary volume.

*BACKUP
The optical volume is a backup volume. You can use a new backup volume or a backup volume which has previously been used as the volume to which objects are copied. For more information about backup volumes, refer to the Optical Support, SC41-4310 book.

Top

To path (TOPATH)

Specifies the path name of the file to be written or the path name of the directory to receive the new file on the to-volume beginning with the root directory of the volume.

*FROMPATH
The path name is the same as the path name of the files or directories being copied from the from-volume.

'path-name'
Specify the path name of the directory to receive the copied files or the path name of the file to be written.

Top

Select files to copy (SLTFILE)

Specifies how the files or directories are selected for copying. If files are not copied based on the SLTFILE value specified, it is not considered an error condition. The files will be considered 'not eligible to copy' in the completion message but the command may still complete without errors.

*CHANGED
The file is copied if the file on the from-volume has a changed date and time later than that of the file on the to-volume. Two sets of dates and times determine if a file has changed: either the date and time the file was last changed, or the date and time the file attributes were last changed. These dates and times can be displayed by specifying DATA(*FILATR) on the Display Optical (DSPOPT) command.

*ALL
All files are copied. The files that exist on the to-volume are replaced even if the dates are the same.

*NEW
The files are copied only if they do not exist on the to-volume.

Top

Copy subdirectories (CPYSUBDIR)

Specifies whether to copy the files in the subdirectories.

*NO
Subdirectories and files in any subdirectories are not copied.

*YES
The files in the subdirectories are copied. The subdirectories are created on the to-volume if they do not exist. The newly created subdirectories have the same name as they did on the from-volume, even though the parent directory name can be different.
A check is made prior to the copy operation to ensure that any resulting new path name does not exceed the maximum path name length. A check is also made to ensure that you do not attempt to copy all subdirectories of a directory to a subdirectory of that directory on the same volume.

Top

Create directory (CRTDIR)

Specifies whether or not the last directory of the to-path is created if it does not exist on the to-volume. The existence of all elements of the to-path, execpt for the last element, are verified prior to the start of the CPYOPT request.

Note: If either the to-volume or from-volume was initialized as an optical volume whose type is backup, this parameter is ignored.

*NO
The last directory of the to-path will not be created if it does not exist on the to-volume.

*YES
The last directory of the to-path will be created if it does not exist on the to-volume. This parameter refers only to the directory to which files or directories are copied and does not apply to subdirectories under that directory. The CPYSUBDIR parameter controls whether subdirectories are created.

Top

Allow copy to opposite side (ALWCPYOPP)

Specifies whether to allow copying files or directories from a volume on one side of an optical cartridge to the opposite side of the optical cartridge.

Note: System performance is degraded when copying large amounts of data to the opposite side of an optical cartridge.

*NO
The copy operation is not attempted if the to-volume is on the opposite side of the from-volume. You can use this value to prevent inadvertent copying to the opposite side of an optical cartridge.

*YES
The copy operation is attempted if the to-volume is on the opposite side of the from-volume.

Note: This value is not valid if either the from-volume or to-volume optical cartridge was initialized as an optical volume whose type is backup.

Top

Copy option (COPYTYPE)

Specifies the type of processing to be used for the copy request.

*IOP
The input/output processor (IOP) copies the data from one volume to another with minimal data movement. If two volumes are required, two drives in the optical media library are allocated for the duration of the copy operation.

Note: Specifying COPYTYPE(*IOP) provides the best performance for the copy request; however, it can also adversely affect interactive performance of requests to other volumes in the optical media library because two optical drives in the optical media library are allocated for the duration of the copy.

*SYSTEM
The system copies the data using available resources. This type of processing is automatically used when:

- Only one drive is operable

- The two volumes are in separate optical media libraries

- The two volumes are on the opposite side of the same optical cartridge

- The media format of either volume is Universal Disk Format (UDF)

- The coded character sets of the volumes are different

This option is recommended if interactive requests will be made to volumes in the optical media library during the copy operation.

Top

Starting date and time (FROMTIME)

Specifies a starting date and time used to determine if a file or directory is selected for copying. All files or directories that have been created or changed, or whose attributes have changed, on or after the starting date and time are selected for copying. This parameter is ignored if copying a single file or when copying from a backup volume to a primary volume.

You can determine when a file was last created or changed by:

- Specifying DATA(*FILATR) on the Display Optical (DSPOPT) command.

- Using the hierarchical file system (HFS) API program QHFRTVAT. The standard attribute, QWRTDTTM, is the file last changed date and time. The extended attribute, OPT.CHGATDTTM, is the attribute last changed date and time.

Element 1: Starting date

*BEGIN
All dates found are used. All the files and directories are selected for copying.

start-date
Specify a date to be used as a starting point. All files created or modified on or after the start date are selected.
The date must be entered in the format specified by the system values, QDATFMT, and, if separators are used, QDATSEP.

Element 2: Starting time

*AVAIL
All available times for the starting date are used.

start-time
Specify a time to use as the starting time or the starting date. The time separator is defined by the system value QTIMSEP. separator as follows:

- With a time separator, specify a string of 5 or 8 digits, where the time separator for the job separates the hours, minutes, and seconds. If you issue this command from the command line, the string must be enclosed in apostrophes. If a time separator other than the separator specified for your job is used, this command fails.

- Without a time separator, specify a string of 4 or 6 digits (hhmm or hhmmss) where hh = hours, mm = minutes, and ss = seconds. Valid values for hh range from 00 through 23. Valid values for mm and ss range from 00 through 59.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Copying All Files in All Directories

CPYOPT FROMVOL(VOL01) FROMPATH('/') TOVOL(VOL02)
CPYSUBDIR(*YES) SLTFILE(*ALL) CRTDIR(*YES)

This command copies all files in all directories and subdirectories from the optical volume VOL01 to the optical volume VOL02. Directories are created on volume VOL02 if they do not exist. If the files already exist on volume VOL02, they are replaced.

Example 2: Copying Changed Files

CPYOPT FROMVOL(VOL01) FROMPATH('/DIR1/DIR2') TOVOL(VOL02)

This command copies all changed files in the directory /DIR1/DIR2 to the same files on the optical volume VOL02.

Example 3: Copying Files From a Backup to a Primary Volume

CPYOPT FROMVOL(VOL01BACKUP *BACKUP) FROMPATH('/DIR1')
TOVOL(VOL02) CPYSUBDIR(*YES)

This command copies all files and subdirectories in the directory /DIR1 on the optical backup volume VOL01BACKUP to the same files on the primary optical volume VOL02.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF222E
&1 special authority is required.

OPT0147
SLTFILE value not allowed for operation.

OPT0149
CPYSUBDIR(*YES) not allowed with FROMPATH value.

OPT0152
Specified start time not allowed with FROMTIME(*BEGIN).

OPT1105
File is read only.

OPT1115
File not found.

OPT1120
File already exists.

OPT1125
File is in use.

OPT1129
Operation not allowed to file opened for Expanding Buffer I/O.

OPT1130
File name specified is a reserved file name.

OPT1135
Request failed because number of open files is at the limit.

OPT1140
Unexpected error occurred during file processing.

OPT1185
Cannot access held optical file.

OPT1205
Directory not found.

OPT1212
Directory in use.

OPT1220
File or directory name already exists.

OPT1224
Path length exceeds the maximum of 256 bytes.

OPT1255
File is corrupted.

OPT1261
Active file found on volume &1.

OPT1305
Optical volume &1 is read only.

OPT1315
Optical volume &1 is write protected.

OPT1317
Directory name is too long.

OPT1320
Optical volume &1 in use.

OPT1325
Optical volume format not recognized.

OPT1330
Optical volume not found or not useable.

OPT1331
Optical volume &1 not found.

OPT1340
Optical volume &1 not initialized.

OPT1344
Optical file name not valid.

OPT1345
No free space available on media.

OPT1346
Operation not allowed to volume located in a remote optical device.

OPT1350
Write operation failed to optical volume &1.

OPT1360
Media directory corrupted on optical volume &1.

OPT1460
Optical volume &1 is not in an optical device.

OPT1462
Operation not completed, optical volume is not a backup volume.

OPT1463
Operation not completed, optical volume is not a primary volume.

OPT1530
&1 does not represent a valid optical device.

OPT1555
Optical device &1 in use.

OPT1605
Media or device error occurred.

OPT1640
Error occurred reading files or directories.

OPT1790
Operation not allowed or conflicts with another request.

OPT1795
Error accessing directory attributes.

OPT1805
Error accessing optical volume index file.

OPT1810
Error accessing optical directory index file.

OPT1813
Unexpected error occurred.

OPT1815
Internal program error occurred.

OPT1820
Internal error occurred on optical device &1.

OPT1821
Error occurred on optical device &1.

OPT1825
Optical indexes are incorrect for optical device &1.

OPT1860
Request to optical device &1 failed.

OPT1861
No device description configured for resource &1.

OPT1862
No active device description for resource &1.

OPT1863
Optical libraries need to be reclaimed.

OPT1872
Optical request timed out or was cancelled.

OPT2001
&1 files copied; &2 files or directories failed; &8 files not eligible to copy.

OPT2004
Copy request ended abnormally. &1 files copied.

OPT2005
No files found in directory.

OPT2006
Directory path length too long.

OPT2007
TOVOL on opposite side of FROMVOL.

OPT2008
Copy request is not allowed.

OPT2009
Copy not permitted from backup volume.

OPT2010
Copy not permitted to backup volume.

OPT2015
File failed to copy.

OPT2028
Copy to backup not allowed for optical volumes specified.

OPT2029
TOVOL on opposite side of FROMVOL

OPT2040
Error accessing backup control file.

OPT2301
Internal system object in use.

OPT2420
Not authorized to optical volume &2.

OPT2422
Not authorized to file or directory.

OPT7740
User not authorized to object &2 in library &3 type &4.

Top