Keyword differences between fixed form and free form definitions

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Definition Specifications > Free-Form Definition Statement > Free-Form Definition Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Definition Specifications > Free-Form Definition Statement

Keyword differences between fixed form and free form definitions

Table 1. Free-form equivalents for keywords that are not supported in free-form definitions

Keyword

Free-form equivalent

CLASS

The class information is specified
as parameters of the OBJECT keyword.

DATFMT

The date format is specified as the parameter
of the DATE keyword.

FROMFILE

You must use a fixed-form definition
if you want to specify the FROMFILE keyword.

PACKEVEN

The PACKEVEN keyword is related
to the use of from-and-to positions which are not supported
for a free-form subfield definition.

PROCPTR

The procedure pointer data type is specified
as POINTER(*PROC).

TIMFMT

The time format is specified as the parameter
of the TIME keyword.

TOFILE

You must use a fixed-form definition
if you want to specify the TOFILE keyword.

VARYING

Variable length fields are defined
using the VARCHAR, VARGRAPH, and VARUCS2 keywords.

Table 2. Keyword differences between free-form and fixed-form definitions

Keyword

Difference

DTAARA

See Free-form DTAARA keyword for a data structure
and Free-form DTAARA keyword for a field or subfield.

EXPORT

In a free-form definition, the external
name can be specified using *DCLCASE.

EXTFLD

In a free-form definition,
the external field name must be
specified as a character literal or a previously defined
named constant representing a character literal.

EXTNAME

In a free-form definition,
the external file and external record format must be
specified as character literals or previously-defined
named constants representing a character literals.

EXTPROC

In a free-form definition, the external
name can be specified using *DCLCASE.

IMPORT

In a free-form definition, the external
name can be specified using *DCLCASE.

LIKE

In a free-form definition, the length
adjustment is specified as the second parameter of the LIKE keyword.

OVERLAY

In a free-form definition,
the parameter of the OVERLAY keyword
cannot be the name of the data structure.
To explicitly specify the starting position of a
subfield within the data structure, use the POS keyword.

Parent topic: Free-Form Definition Statement