SELECT INTO

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

SELECT INTO
The SELECT INTO statement produces a result table consisting
of at most one row, and assigns the values in that row to variables.
InvocationThis statement can only be embedded
in an application program. It is an executable statement that cannot
be dynamically prepared. It must not be specified in REXX.
AuthorizationThe privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
For each table or view identified in the statement, The SELECT privilege on the table or view, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the table
or view

Database administrator authority

If a global variable is specified in the INTO variable
list, the privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement
must include at least one of the following:
The WRITE privilege on the global variable.
Database administrator authority

For information about the system authorities corresponding
to SQL privileges, see Corresponding
System Authorities When Checking Privileges to a Table or View.
Syntaxselect-clauseINTO,variablefrom-clausewhere-clausegroup-by-clausehaving-clauseorder-by-clausefetch-first-clause1isolation-clauseconcurrent-access-resolution-clause2
DescriptionThe result table is derived
by evaluating the isolation-clause, concurrent-access-resolution-clause, from-clause, where-clause, group-by-clause, having-clause, order-by-clause, fetch-first-clause,
and select-clause, in this order.
See Queries for a description
of the select-clause, from-clause, where-clause, group-by-clause, having-clause, order-by-clause, fetch-first-clause, isolation-clause,
and concurrent-access-resolution-clause.
INTO variable,…
Identifies one or more
host structures or variables that must be declared in the program
in accordance with the rules for declaring host structures and variables.
In the operational form of the INTO clause, a reference to a host
structure is replaced by a reference to each of its variables. The
first value in the result row is assigned to the first variable in
the list, the second value to the second variable, and so on. The
data type of each variable must be compatible with its corresponding
column.

NotesVariable assignment: Each
assignment to a variable is performed according to the retrieval assignment
rules described in Assignments and comparisons.1 If the
number of variables is less than the number of values in the row,
an SQL warning (SQLSTATE 01503) is returned (and the SQLWARN3 field
of the SQLCA is set to 'W'). Note that there is no warning if there
are more variables than the number of result columns. If a value is
null, an indicator variable must be provided for that value.
If the specified variable is character and is not large
enough to contain the result, a warning (SQLSTATE 01004) is returned
(and 'W' is assigned to SQLWARN1 in the SQLCA). The actual length
of the result may be returned in the indicator variable associated
with the variable, if an indicator variable is provided. For further
information, see Variables.
If an assignment error occurs, the value of that variable
and any following variables is unpredictable. Any values that have
already been assigned to variables remain assigned.
Multiple assignments: If more than one variable
is specified in the INTO clause, the query is completely evaluated
before the assignments are performed. Thus, references to a variable in
the select list are always the value of the variable prior
to any assignment in the SELECT INTO statement.
Empty result table: If the result table is empty,
the statement assigns '02000' to the SQLSTATE variable and does not
assign values to the variables.
Result tables with more than one row: If more
than one row satisfies the search condition, statement processing
is terminated and an error is returned (SQLSTATE 21000). If an error
occurs because the result table has more than one row, values may
or may not be assigned to the variables. If values are assigned to
the variables, the row that is the source of the values is undefined
and not predictable.
Result column evaluation considerations: If an
error occurs while evaluating a result column in the select list of
a SELECT INTO statement, as the result of an arithmetic expression
(such as division by zero, or overflow) or a numeric or character
conversion error, the result is the null value. As in any other case
of a null value, an indicator variable must be provided. The value
of the variable is undefined. In this case, however, the indicator
variable is set to the value of -2. Processing of the statement continues
and a warning is returned. If an indicator variable is not provided,
an error is returned and no more values are assigned to variables.
It is possible that some values have already been assigned to variables
and will remain assigned when the error is returned.
When a datetime value is returned, the length of the variable
must be large enough to store the complete value. Otherwise, depending
on how much of the value would have to be truncated, a warning or
an error is returned. See Datetime assignments for details.
ExamplesExample 1: Using a COBOL
program statement, put the maximum salary (SALARY) from the EMPLOYEE
table into the host variable MAX-SALARY (DECIMAL(9,2)).
EXEC SQL SELECT MAX(SALARY)
INTO :MAX-SALARY
FROM EMPLOYEE WITH CS
END-EXEC.

Example 2: Using a Java™ program
statement, select the row from the EMPLOYEE table on the connection
context 'ctx' with a employee number (EMPNO) value the same as that
stored in the host variable HOST_EMP (java.lang.String). Then put
the last name (LASTNAME) and education level (EDLEVEL) from that row
into the host variables HOST_NAME (String) and HOST_EDUCATE (Integer).
#sql [ctx] { SELECT LASTNAME, EDLEVEL
INTO :HOST_NAME, :HOST_EDUCATE
FROM EMPLOYEE
WHERE EMPNO = :HOST_EMP };

Example 3: Put the row for employee 528671, from
the EMPLOYEE table, into the host structure EMPREC. Assume that the
row will be updated later and should be locked when the query executes.
EXEC SQL SELECT *
INTO :EMPREC
FROM EMPLOYEE
WHERE EMPNO = '528671'
WITH RS USE AND KEEP EXCLUSIVE LOCKS
END-EXEC.

Parent topic: Statements

1 If assigning
to an SQL-variable or SQL-parameter and the standards option is specified,
storage assignment rules apply. For information about the standards
option, see Standards compliance.