Resulting Indicators

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > RPG IV Indicators > Indicators Defined on RPG IV Specifications > Indicators Defined on RPG IV Specifications

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > RPG IV Indicators > Indicators Defined on RPG IV Specifications

Resulting Indicators

Resulting indicators are used by calculation specifications in the traditional format (C® specifications). They are not used by free-form calculation specifications. For most operation codes, in either traditional format or free-form, you can use built-in functions instead of resulting indicators. For more information, see Built-in Functions.

A resulting indicator is defined by an entry in positions 71 through
76 of the calculation specifications. The purpose of the resulting
indicators depends on the operation code specified in positions 26
through 35. (See the individual operation code in Operation Codes for
a description of the purpose of the resulting indicators.) For example,
resulting indicators can be used to test the result field after an
arithmetic operation, to identify a record-not-found condition, to
indicate an exception/error condition for a file operation, or to
indicate an end-of-file condition.

The valid resulting indicators are:

01-99

H1-H9

OA-OG, OV

L1-L9

LR

U1-U8

KA-KN, KP-KY (valid only with SETOFF)

RT

You can specify resulting indicators in three places (positions
71-72, 73-74, and 75-76) of the calculation specifications. The positions
in which the resulting indicator is defined determine the condition
to be tested.

In most cases, when a calculation is processed, the resulting indicators
are set off, and, if the condition specified by a resulting indicator
is satisfied, that indicator is set on. However, there some exceptions
to this rule, notably LOOKUP (Look Up a Table or Array Element), SETOFF (Set Indicator Off),
and SETON (Set Indicator On). A resulting indicator can be used as a
conditioning indicator on the same calculation line or in other calculations
or output operations. When you use it on the same line, the prior
setting of the indicator determines whether or not the calculation
is processed. If it is processed, the result field is tested and
the current setting of the indicator is determined (see Figure 1).

Rules for Assigning Resulting Indicators

Parent topic: Indicators Defined on RPG IV Specifications