Alphanumeric or Alphanumeric-Edited

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > MOVE Statement > Elementary Moves > Elementary Moves

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > MOVE Statement > Elementary Moves

Alphanumeric or Alphanumeric-Edited
Alignment and any necessary space filling take place, as described under Alignment Rules.
If the sending item is a national decimal integer item, the sending data is
converted to usage DISPLAY and treated as though it were moved to a
temporary data item of category alphanumeric with the same number of
character positions as the sending item. The resulting alphanumeric data item is
treated as the sending item.
If the size of the sending item is greater than the size of the receiving
item, excess characters on the right are truncated after the receiving item
is filled.
If the sending item has an operational sign, the absolute value is used.
If the operational sign occupies a separate character, that character is not
moved, and the size of the sending item is considered to be one less character
than the actual size.

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension If the sending item is Boolean, the data is moved as if the sending item
were described as an alphanumeric item of length 1.
If the sending item is national, it will be converted before
it is passed to the receiving field. The conversion is performed based on
the data translation rule described in National or national-edited.
If the sending item is date-time, the date-time item is treated like an
alphanumeric item, and moved to the receiver following the rules for an alphanumeric
to alphanumeric move. If the sending date-time item has a USAGE of PACKED-DECIMAL,
it is first converted to a USAGE of DISPLAY.
If the receiving item is alphanumeric or numeric-edited, and the sending
item is a scaled integer (that is, has a P as the rightmost character in its
PICTURE character-string), the scaling positions are treated as trailing zeros
when the MOVE statement is executed.
If the receiving item is numeric and the sending
item is alphanumeric literal, national literal, or ALL literal, then
all characters of the literal must be numeric
characters.

End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

Parent topic: Elementary Moves