Group data area

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Communicating between programs and procedures > Using data areas > Using data areas

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Communicating between programs and procedures > Using data areas

Group data area
The system creates a group data area when an interactive job becomes
a group job (using the Change Group Attributes (CHGGRPA) command).
Only one group data area can exist for a group. The group data area is
deleted when the last job in the group is ended (with the ENDJOB, SIGNOFF,
or ENDGRPJOB command, or with an abnormal end), or when the job is no longer
part of the group job (using the CHGGRPA command with GRPJOB(*NONE) specified).
A group data area, which is initially filled with blanks, has a length
of 512 and type *CHAR. You can use a group data area from within a group job
by specifying *GDA for the DTAARA parameter on the CHGDTAARA, RTVDTAARA, and
DSPDTAARA commands. A group data area is accessible to all of the jobs in
the group.
The following are true for a group data area:
You cannot use the group data area as a substitute for a character variable
on the substring built-in function (%SUBSTRING or %SST). (You can, however,
move a 512-byte character variable used by the substring function into or
out of the group data area.)
A group data area cannot be referred to by jobs outside the group.
You cannot create, delete, or allocate a group data area.
No library is associated with a group data area.

The contents of a group data area are unchanged by the Transfer
to Group Job (TFRGRPJOB) command.
In addition to using the group data area as you use other data areas, you
can use the group data area to communicate information between group jobs
in the same group. For example, after issuing the Change Group Job
Attributes (CHGGRPA) command, the following command can be used
to set the value of the group data area:
CHGDTAARA DTAARA(*GDA) VALUE('January1988')
This command can be run from a program or can be issued by the workstation
user.
Any other CL procedure or program in the group can retrieve the value of
the group data area with the following CL command:
RTVDTAARA DTAARA(*GDA) RTNVAR(&GRPARA)
This command places the value of the group data area (January1988)
into CL variable &GRPARA.

Parent topic: Using data areas

Related information
CL command finder
Change Group Attributes (CHGGRPA) command
Create Data Area (CRTDTAARA) command
Retrieve Data Area (RTVDTAARA) command
Change Data Area (CHGDTAARA) command
Display Data Area (DSPDTAARA) command
Delete Data Area (DLTDTAARA) command