RENAME

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

RENAME
The RENAME statement renames a table, view, or index. The
name and/or the system object name of the table, view, or index can
be changed.
InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared.
AuthorizationThe privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
The following system authorities: If the name of the object is changed: The system authority of *OBJMGT on the table, view, or index to
be renamed
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the table,
view, or index to be renamed

If the system name of the object is changed: The system authority of *OBJMGT on the table, view, or index to
be renamed
The system authorities *EXECUTE and *UPD on the library containing
the table, view, or index to be renamed

Database administrator authority

SyntaxRENAMETABLEtable-nameview-nameINDEXindex-nameTOtarget-identifierFOR SYSTEM NAMEsystem-object-identifierSYSTEM NAMEsystem-object-identifer
DescriptionTABLE table-name or view-name
Identifies the table or view that
will be renamed. The table-name or view-name must identify
a table or view that exists at the current server, but must not identify
a catalog table or a declared temporary table. The specified name
can be an alias name. The specified table or view is renamed to the
new name. All privileges, constraints, indexes, triggers, views, and
logical files on the table or view are preserved. Any access plans
that reference the table or view are implicitly prepared again when
a program that uses the access plan is next run. Since the program
refers to a table or view with the original name, if a table or view
with the original name does not exist at that time, an error is returned.

INDEX index-name
Identifies the index that
will be renamed. The index-name must identify an index that
exists at the current server. The specified index is renamed to the
new name. Any access plans that reference the index are not affected
by rename.

target-identifier
Identifies the new table-name, view-name, or index-name of
the table, view, or index, respectively. target-identifier must
not be the same as a table, view, alias, or index that already exists
at the current server. The target-identifier must be an unqualified
SQL identifier.
SYSTEM NAME system-object-identifier
Identifies the new system-object-identifier of the table,
view, or index, respectively. system-object-identifier must
not be the same as a table, view, alias, or index that already exists
at the current server. The system-object-identifier must be
an unqualified system identifier. If the name of the object and
the system name of the object are the same and target-identifier is
not specified, specifying system-object-identifier will be
the new name and system object name. Otherwise, specifying system-object-identifier will
only affect the system name of the object and not affect the name
of the object.
If both target-identifier and system-object-identifier are
specified, they cannot both be valid system object names.

NotesEffects
of the statement: The specified table, view, or index is renamed
to the new name. For a renamed table, all privileges and indexes on
the table are preserved. For a renamed index, all privileges are preserved.
Invalidation of packages and access plans: Any
access plans that refer to that table are invalidated. For more information
see Packages and access plans.
Considerations for aliases: If an alias name is
specified for table-name, the table must
exist at the current server, and the table that is identified by the
alias is renamed. The name of the alias is not changed and continues
to refer to the old table name after the rename.
There is no support for changing the name of an alias
with the RENAME statement. To change the name to which the alias refers,
the alias must be dropped and recreated.
Rename rules: The rename operation performed depends
on the new name specified.
If the new name is a valid system identifier, the alternative name (if any) is removed, and
the system object name is changed to the new name.

If the new name is not a valid system identifier, the alternative name is added or changed to the new name, and
a new system object name is generated if the system object name
(of the table or view) was specified as the table, view, or index
to rename. For more information about generated table name rules,
see Rules for Table Name Generation.

If an alias name is specified for table-name, the
alias must exist at the current server, and the table that is identified
by the alias is renamed. The name of the alias is not changed and
continues to refer to the old table after the rename. There is no
support for changing the name of an alias.
ExamplesExample 1: Change the name
of the EMPLOYEE table to CURRENT_EMPLOYEES:
RENAME TABLE EMPLOYEE
TO CURRENT_EMPLOYEES

Example 2: Change the name of the unique index
using EMPNO, called XEMP1, to UXEMPNO:
RENAME INDEX XEMP1
TO UXEMPNO

Example 3: Rename a table named MY_IN_TRAY to MY_IN_TRAY_94.
The system object name will remain unchanged (MY_IN_TRAY).
RENAME TABLE MY_IN_TRAY TO MY_IN_TRAY_94
FOR SYSTEM NAME MY_IN_TRAY

Parent topic: Statements