TRIMR

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Intrinsic Functions > Intrinsic Functions

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Intrinsic Functions

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension
TRIMR
The TRIMR function returns the given string with any trailing blanks removed,
or the given string with any trailing specified characters removed.

The type of the function is alphanumeric, DBCS or national depending on
the class of its argument.

Format:

>>-FUNCTION TRIMR--(--argument-1--+------------+--)------------><
    '-argument-2-'    

argument-1
Must be a nonnumeric literal, or data item of class alphabetic, alphanumeric,
DBCS or national. Argument-1 identifies the source string for the trim.
argument-2
If specified, it must be a nonnumeric literal, or data item of the same
class as argument-1. It specifies the characters to trim off. If not specified,
the trim character defaults to blank.

If argument-2 is not specified, the returned value is an alphanumeric,
DBCS or national character string consisting of the characters of argument-1
with any trailing blanks removed. The blank character is a one byte space
character (' ' or X'40') when argument-1 is of class alphanumeric, or one
double-byte space (X'4040') when argument-1 is of class DBCS, or one national
space (X'0020' or X'3000') when argument-1 is of class national.

If argument-2 is specified, the returned value is an alphanumeric, DBCS
or national character string consisting of the characters of argument-1 with
any trailing characters specified in argument-2 removed.

The length of the returned string depends on the content and the class
of argument-1. It is the length of the returned string in number of character
positions. If argument-1 is a DBCS or national data item, then the length
is in DBCS or national character positions.

For more information on returned values and examples, see TRIM.

Parent topic: Intrinsic Functions

End of IBM Extension End of IBM Extension