TIMESTAMP

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

TIMESTAMP
The TIMESTAMP function returns a timestamp from its argument
or arguments.
TIMESTAMP(expression-1,expression-2precision-constant)
expression-1 and expression-2
The rules for the arguments depend on whether a
second argument is specified and the data type of the second argument.
If only expression-1 is specified: The
argument must be an expression that returns a value of one of the
following built-in data types: a date, a timestamp,
a character string, or a graphic string. If expression-1 is
a character or graphic string, its value must be one of the following: A valid string representation of a date or a
timestamp. For the valid formats of string representations of dates and timestamps, see String representations of datetime values.
A character string with an actual length of 13 that is assumed
to be a result from a GENERATE_UNIQUE function. For information on
GENERATE_UNIQUE, see GENERATE_UNIQUE.

If both arguments are specified:If the second argument is expression-2:The
first argument must be an expression that returns a value of one of
the following built-in data types: a date, a character string, or
a graphic string. If expression-1 is a character
or graphic string, its value must be a valid string representation
of a date.
expression-2 must be an expression that returns
a value of one of the following built-in data types: a time, a character
string, or a graphic string. If expression-2 is
a character or graphic string, its value must be a valid string representation
of a time. For the valid formats of string representations of dates
and times, see String representations of datetime values.

If the second argument is precision-constant: The
first argument must be an expression that returns a value of one of
the following built-in data types: a date, a timestamp, a character
string, or a graphic string. If expression-1 is
a character or graphic string, its value must be one of the following: A valid string representation of a date or timestamp.
For the valid formats of string representations of dates and timestamps,
see String representations of datetime values.
A character string with an actual length of 13 that is assumed
to be a result from a GENERATE_UNIQUE function. For information on
GENERATE_UNIQUE, see GENERATE_UNIQUE.

precision-constant
An integer constant representing the number of fractional seconds.
The value must be in the range 0 through 12.

The result of the function is a timestamp. If either argument
can be null, the result can be null; if either argument is null, the
result is the null value.
The other rules depend on whether the second argument
is specified:
If both arguments are specified and the second
argument is expression-2: The result
is a TIMESTAMP(6) with the date specified by
the first argument and the time specified by the second argument.
The fractional seconds part of the timestamp
is zero.

If both arguments are specified and the second argument
is precision-constant: The result is a timestamp with the
precision specified by the second argument.

If only one argument is specified and it is a TIMESTAMP(p):
The result is a TIMESTAMP(p).

If only one argument is specified and it is a DATE:
The result is that date with an assumed time of midnight cast
to TIMESTAMP(0).

If only one argument is specified and it is a string: The
result is the TIMESTAMP(6) represented by that
string. If the argument is a string of length 14, the timestamp has
a fractional seconds part of zero.

NoteSyntax alternatives: The CAST
specification should be used to increase the portability of applications
when only one argument is specified. For more information, see CAST specification.
ExamplesAssume the following date and time values:   SELECT TIMESTAMP( DATE('1988-12-25'), TIME('17.12.30') )
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
Returns
the value '1988-12-25-17.12.30.000000'.

Convert a timestamp string with 7 digits of fractional
seconds to a TIMESTAMP(9) value.TIMESTAMP('2007-09-24-15.53.37.2162474', 9)
Returns
the value ’2007-09-24-15.53.37.216247400’.

Parent topic: Scalar functions