Create Device Desc (Optical) (CRTDEVOPT)

Create Device Desc (Optical) (CRTDEVOPT)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Create Device Description (Optical) (CRTDEVOPT) command creates a device description for an optical device. More information about using this command is in the Local Device Configuration book, SC41-5121.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority to use this command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
DEVD | Device description | Name | Required, Key, Positional 1
RSRCNAME | Resource name | Name, *NONE, *VRT | Required, Key, Positional 2
TYPE | Device type | Character value, *RSRCNAME, 6320, 6321, 632A, 632B, 6330, 6336 | Optional, Key
LCLINTNETA | Local internet address | *NONE, *SRVLAN | Optional
RMTINTNETA | Remote internet address | Character value | Optional
NETIMGDIR | Network image directory | Path name | Optional
UID | User ID number | 0-4294967295, 0 | Optional
GID | Group ID number | 0-4294967295, 0 | Optional
ONLINE | Online at IPL | *YES, *NO | Optional
MSGQ | Message queue | Single values: *SYSOPR
Other values: Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Message queue | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
TEXT | Text 'description' | Character value, *BLANK | Optional
AUT | Authority | Name, *CHANGE, *ALL, *USE, *EXCLUDE, *LIBCRTAUT | Optional

Top

Device description (DEVD)

Specifies the name of the device description.

Top

Resource name (RSRCNAME)

Specifies the resource name that identifies the hardware that the description represents.

*NONE

No resource name is specified. A resource name must be provided before the device can be varied on.

*VRT

The resource name will be generated by the operating system at the time the device description is created. The resource name will represent virtual (not physical) hardware. Once the IBM i has created the maximum number of virtual hardware resources, the last created resource will be used for the device description.

Note: The resource name will not be removed if a device description is deleted. You may create a new device description for existing resources by specifying the resource by name.

resource-name

Specify the resource name that identifies the hardware on the system.

Note: Use the Work with Hardware Resources (WRKHDWRSC) command with TYPE(*STG) specified to determine the resource name.

Top

Device type (TYPE)

Specifies the type of device this description represents.

Note: If the type (TYPE) parameter specified is not valid for the resource name (RSRCNAME) parameter specified, the OS will automatically configure the TYPE parameter.

*RSRCNAME

The device type is determined from the resource name (RSRCNAME) parameter.

For a list of the device types that are valid on this parameter, press F4 (Prompt) from the TYPE prompt.

Top

Local internet address (LCLINTNETA)

Specifies the TCP/IP interface to be used to communicate with the remote system when using virtual image files on a network.

Note: This parameter is not valid if *NONE is specified for the Resource name (RSRCNAME) parameter, or if any value except 632B or *RSRCNAME is specified for the Device type (TYPE) parameter.

*NONE

No internet address is specified. Specifying this value will prevent the use of network virtual image files.

*SRVLAN

The value that was defined for the service tool server or the operations console (LAN) is specified.

Top

Remote internet address (RMTINTNETA)

Specifies the remote internet address of the Network File System (NFS) server where this virtual optical device will look for virtual image files.

Note: A value is required for this parameter if *SRVLAN is specified for the Local internet address (LCLINTNETA) parameter.

character-value

An IPv4 internet address is specified in the form, nnn.nnn.nnn.nnn, where nnn is a decimal number ranging from 0 through 255. Leading zeros in each part of the dotted decimal internet address are invalid and will be removed. An internet address is not valid if it has a value of all binary ones or zeros for the network identifier (ID) or host portion of the address. If the internet address is entered from the command line, the address must be enclosed in apostrophes.

An IPv6 internet address is specified in the form x:x:x:x:x:x:x:x, where x is a hexadecimal number ranging from 0 through X'FFFF'. "::" may be used once in the IPv6 address to indicate one or more groups of 16 bits of zeros. The "::" may be used to compress leading, imbedded, or trailing zeros in the address. An IPv6 internet address must be a unicast address and must not contain an imbedded IPv4 address (compatibility or mapped). If the internet address is entered from the command line, the address must be enclosed in apostrophes.

Top

Network image directory (NETIMGDIR)

Specifies the network path on the Network File System (NFS) server containing the virtual image files that were prepared for use with this device.

Note: A value is required for this parameter if *SRVLAN is specified for the Local internet address (LCLINTNETA) parameter.

path-name

Specify the network path on the NFS server containing the virtual image files. Up to 127 characters may be specified.

Top

User ID number (UID)

Specifies the ID number of the remote user profile on the Network File System (NFS) server.

Note: This parameter is only valid if *SRVLAN is specified for the Local internet address LCLINTNETA parameter.

0-4294967295

Specify the ID number of the remote user profile on the NFS server.

Top

Group ID number (GID)

Specifies the ID number of the remote group profile on the Network File System (NFS) server.

Note: This parameter is only valid if *SRVLAN is specified for the Local internet address LCLINTNETA parameter.

0-4294967295

Specify the ID number of the remote group profile on the NFS server.

Top

Online at IPL (ONLINE)

Specifies whether this object is automatically varied on at initial program load (IPL).

Note: The value for this parameter will be set to *NO if *SRVLAN is specified for the Local internet address LCLINTNETA parameter.

*YES

This device is varied on automatically at IPL.

*NO

This device is not varied on automatically at IPL.

Top

Message queue (MSGQ)

Specifies the message queue to which operational messages for this device are sent.

Single values

*SYSOPR

Messages are sent to the system operator message queue (QSYS/QSYSOPR).

Qualifier 1: Message queue

name

Specify the name of the message queue to which operational messages are sent.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL

All libraries in the job's library list are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB

The current library for the job is searched. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, the QGPL library is used.

name

Specify the name of the library to be searched.

Top

Text 'description' (TEXT)

Specifies the text that briefly describes the object.

*BLANK
No text is specified.

character-value
Specify no more than 50 characters of text, enclosed in apostrophes.

Top

Authority (AUT)

Specifies the authority you are giving to users who do not have specific authority for the object, who are not on an authorization list, and whose group profile or supplemental group profiles do not have specific authority for the object.

*CHANGE
The user can perform all operations on the object except those limited to the owner or controlled by object existence (*OBJEXIST) and object management (*OBJMGT) authorities. The user can change and perform basic functions on the object. *CHANGE authority provides object operational (*OBJOPR) authority and all data authority. If the object is an authorization list, the user cannot add, change, or remove users.

*ALL
The user can perform all operations except those limited to the owner or controlled by authorization list management (*AUTLMGT) authority. The user can control the object's existence, specify the security for the object, change the object, and perform basic functions on the object. The user also can change ownership of the object.

*USE
The user can perform basic operations on the object, such as running a program or reading a file. The user cannot change the object. Use (*USE) authority provides object operational (*OBJOPR), read (*READ), and execute (*EXECUTE) authorities.

*EXCLUDE
The user cannot access the object.

*LIBCRTAUT
The system determines the authority for the object by using the value specified for the Create authority (CRTAUT) parameter on the Create Library (CRTLIB) command for the library containing the object to be created. If the value specified for the CRTAUT parameter is changed, the new value will not affect any existing objects.

name
Specify the name of an authorization list to be used for authority to the object. Users included in the authorization list are granted authority to the object as specified in the list. The authorization list must exist when the object is created.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Create an Optical Device Description

CRTDEVOPT DEVD(OPT01) RSRCNAME(OPT01) TYPE(*RSRCNAME)

This command creates a device description for an optical device that is named OPT01. The device type is determined from the resource name.

Example 2: Create a Virtual Optical Device Description

CRTDEVOPT DEVD(VRTOPT01) RSRCNAME(*VRT) TYPE(*RSRCNAME)

This command creates a device description for a virtual optical device that is named VRTOPT01. The device type is determined from the resource name. All virtual optical devices will be assigned a TYPE value of 632B.

Example 3: Create a Virtual Optical Device Description When Using Virtual Image Files on a Network

CRTDEVOPT DEVD(VRTOPT02) RSRCNAME(*VRT) LCLINTNETA(*SRVLAN)
RMTINTNETA('9.5.1.1')
NETIMGDIR('/Mypath/My Catalog Directory')
UID(123) GID(26) ONLINE(*NO)

This command creates a device description for a virtual optical device that is named VRTOPT02. The device type is determined from the resource name. All virtual optical devices will be assigned a TYPE value of 632B. The MODEL will be 003, since the value *SRVLAN is specified for LCLINTNETA. The device will look for virtual image files using the Network File System (NFS) server internet address specified for RMTINTNETA. The path name on the remote NFS server specified for NETIMGDIR will be used to locate the virtual image files. The user ID number specified for UID and the group ID number specified for GID identify the profiles that will be used on the remote NFS server. The device will not be varied on automatically at IPL.

Example 4: Create a Virtual Optical Device Description When Using Virtual Image Files on an IPv6 Network

CRTDEVOPT DEVD(VRTOPT03) RSRCNAME(*VRT) LCLINTNETA(*SRVLAN)
RMTINTNETA('fe80::1234')
NETIMGDIR('/Mypath/My Catalog Directory')
ONLINE(*NO)

This command creates a device description for a virtual optical device that is named VRTOPT03. The device type is determined from the resource name. All virtual optical devices will be assigned a TYPE value of 632B. The MODEL will be 003, since the value *SRVLAN is specified for LCLINTNETA. The device will look for virtual image files using the Network File System (NFS) server internet address specified for RMTINTNETA. The path name on the remote NFS server specified for NETIMGDIR will be used to locate the virtual image files. The device will not be varied on automatically at IPL.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF261A
Device description &1 not created due to errors.

Top