ALPHABET Clause

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Environment Division > Configuration Section > Configuration Section

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Environment Division > Configuration Section

ALPHABET Clause
The ALPHABET clause provides a means of relating an alphabet-name
to a specified character code set or collating sequence.

ALPHABET Clause - Format

>>-ALPHABET--alphabet-name-1--+----+---------------------------->
    '-IS-'   

>--+-STANDARD-1--------------------------------+---------------><
   +-STANDARD-2--------------------------------+   
   +-NATIVE------------------------------------+   
   +-EBCDIC------------------------------------+   
   | (1) |   
   +-NLSSORT-----------------------------------+   
   | .---------------------------------------. |   
   | V | |   
   '---literal-1--+------------------------+-+-'   
    +-+-THROUGH-+--literal-2-+    
    | '-THRU----' |    
    | .-----------------. |    
    | V | |    
    '---ALSO--literal-3-+----'    

Notes:IBM® ExtensionIt specifies a collating sequence when used in either: The PROGRAM
COLLATING SEQUENCE clause of the OBJECT-COMPUTER paragraph
The COLLATING SEQUENCE phrase of the SORT
or MERGE statement.

It specifies a character code set when specified in The FD entry CODE-SET clause.

Note: The EBCDIC collating sequence is used when the alphabet-name
clause is omitted.

Related Information: ALPHABET Clause Coding Examples.

alphabet-name-1
Alphabet-name-1
follows the rules for user-defined names. At least one character
must be alphabetic. Alphabet-name-1 identifies a specific character
code set or collating sequence.
STANDARD-1
Specifies the ASCII character set.
STANDARD-2
Specifies
the International Reference Version of the ISO 7-bit code defined
in International Standard 646, 7-bit Coded Character Set for Information
Processing Interchange.
NATIVE
Specifies the
EBCDIC character set.
EBCDIC
Specifies
the EBCDIC character set.
NLSSORT
Use the SRTSEQ and LANGID specifications
in the compiler options (or implied defaults) for alternate collating
sequence aspects of the alphabet-name. An alphabet-name associated
with NLSSORT can be referred to only in the PROGRAM COLLATING SEQUENCE
clause or in the COLLATING SEQUENCE phrase of the SORT and MERGE statements.
literal-1, literal-2, literal-3
Specifies
that the collating sequence is to be determined by
the program, according to the following rules: The order in which literals appear specifies the ordinal number,
in ascending sequence, of the character(s) in this collating sequence.
Each numeric literal specified must be an unsigned integer and
must have a value from 1 through 256 (the maximum number of characters
in the EBCDIC character set). The value of each literal specifies
the relative position of a character within the EBCDIC character set.
For example: literal 112 represents the EBCDIC character ?
literal 234 represents the EBCDIC character Z
literal 241 represents the EBCDIC numeric character 0.

Appendix C. EBCDIC and ASCII Collating Sequences, lists the ordinal number
for each character in the EBCDIC and ASCII collating sequences.

Each character in a nonnumeric literal represents that actual
character in the EBCDIC character set. (If the nonnumeric literal
contains more than one character, each character, starting with the
leftmost, is assigned a successively ascending position within this
collating sequence.)
Any EBCDIC characters not explicitly specified assume positions
in this collating sequence higher than any of the explicitly specified
characters. The relative order of the unspecified characters remains
unchanged from the EBCDIC collating sequence.
Within one alphabet-name clause, a given character must not be
specified more than once.
Each nonnumeric literal associated with a THROUGH or ALSO phrase
must be 1 character in length (if it is longer, only the first character
is kept, and a warning is issued)
When the THROUGH phrase is specified, the contiguous EBCDIC
characters beginning with the character specified by literal-1 and
ending with the character specified by literal-2 are assigned successively
ascending positions in this collating sequence. This sequence may
be either ascending or descending within the original EBCDIC sequence.
For example, if the characters Z through S are specified, then for
this collating sequence the ascending values are: ZYXWVUTS.
When the ALSO phrase is specified, the EBCDIC characters specified as
literal-1, literal-3, and so on, are assigned to the same position
in this collating sequence. For example, if you specify: "D" ALSO "N" ALSO "%"
the
characters D, N, and % are all considered to be in the same position
in the collating sequence.
If specified as literals in the SPECIAL-NAMES paragraph, the figurative
constants HIGH-VALUE and LOW-VALUE are associated with hex FF and
hex 00 respectively.
After all clauses in the SPECIAL-NAMES paragraph are processed,
the character having the highest ordinal position in this collating
sequence is associated with the figurative constant HIGH-VALUE. If
more than one character has the highest position, because of specification
of the ALSO phrase, the last character specified (or defaulted to
when some characters in the native collating sequence are not explicitly
specified) is considered to be the HIGH-VALUE character for procedural
statements such as DISPLAY, or as the sending field in a MOVE statement.
(If all characters within the native collating sequence were explicitly
specified, and the ALSO phrase example from above were specified as
the high-order characters of this collating sequence, the HIGH-VALUE
character would be %.)
After all clauses in the SPECIAL-NAMES paragraph are processed,
the character having the lowest ordinal position in this collating
sequence is associated with the figurative constant LOW-VALUE. If
more than one character has the lowest position, because of specification
of the ALSO phrase, the first character specified is the LOW-VALUE
character. (If the ALSO phrase example given above were specified
as the low-order characters of the collating sequence, the LOW-VALUE
character would be D.)

When literal-1, literal-2, or literal-3 is specified,
the alphabet-name must not be referred to in a CODE-SET clause
(see CODE-SET Clause).

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension DBCS literals and floating-point literals
may not be used in a user-specified collating sequence. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

Coding Examples

Parent topic: Configuration Section