FILETYPE parameter

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters > Commonly used parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters

FILETYPE parameter
The FILETYPE parameter specifies whether the database file description
describes data records or source records.
Further, the FILETYPE parameter specifies whether each member
of a database file being created is to contain data records or source records
(statements). For example, the file could contain RPG source statements for
an RPG program or data description source (DDS) statements for another device
or database file.
Note: If you are creating a source type physical database
file and are not providing field-level descriptions of the file (through data
description specifications (DDS)), you can use either the Create
Physical File (CRTPF) command or the Create Source Physical
File (CRTSRCPF) command. However, the CRTSRCPF command is typically
more convenient and efficient, because it is designed to be used to create
source physical files. If DDS is provided when you are creating a source type
database file, you should use the CRTPF command or the Create Logical
File (CRTLF) command, which both have the SRCFILE and SRCMBR parameters
for specifying source input.
Records in a source file must have
at least three fields: the first two are the source sequence number field
and the date field; the third field contains the source statement. These three
fields are automatically provided by the i5/OS® operating
system when a source file is created for which no DDS is provided; additional
source fields can be defined in DDS. The length of the sequence number field
must be six zoned digits with two decimal places. The length of the date field
must be six zoned digits with no decimal places.
The source sequence
number and date fields are added to the source record when:
Records are read into the system.
Records are created by the Source Entry Utility (which is part of the
licensed WebSphere® Development
Studio program).

The fields are added when an inline data file (specified as the standard
source file format) is read from the device. The spooling reader places a
sequence number in the source sequence number field and sets up a zeroed date
field.
If those fields already exist in records read from the device,
they are not changed. If the records in a database file are in source format
and are being read as an inline data file in data format, the source sequence
number and date fields are removed.

Values allowed*DATA
The file created contains or describes data records.
*SRC
The file created contains or describes source records. If the file is
keyed, the 6-digit source sequence number field must be used as the key field.

Parent topic: Commonly used parameters

Related information
Database programming