Create NetBIOS Description (CRTNTBD)

Create NetBIOS Description (CRTNTBD)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Create NetBIOS Description (CRTNTBD) command creates a NetBIOS configuration description. Configuration objects, such as network server descriptions, for IOPs that support NetBIOS can then refer to this object for their NetBIOS parameters.

More information about using this command is in the Communications Configuration book, SC41-5401 book.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
NTBD | NetBIOS description | Name | Required, Positional 1
TEXT | Text 'description' | Character value, *BLANK | Optional
FULLBUFDTG | Full buffer datagrams | *YES, *NO | Optional
ADPWDWITV | Adaptive window interval | 0-65535, 1000 | Optional
MAXWDWERR | Maximum window errors | 0-10, 0 | Optional
MAXRCVDATA | Maximum receive data size | 512-16384, 4168 | Optional
INACTTMR | Inactivity timer | 1000-65535, 30000 | Optional
RSPTMR | Response timer | 50-65535, 500 | Optional
ACKTMR | Acknowledgement timer | 50-65535, 200 | Optional
MAXIN | Maximum outstanding receives | 1-127, 1 | Optional
MAXOUT | Maximum outstanding transmits | 1-127, 1 | Optional
QRYTMR | Query timeout | 500-10000, 500 | Optional
NTBRTY | NetBIOS retry | 1-50, 8 | Optional
ALWMULTACK | Allow multiple acknowledgement | *YES, *NO | Optional
PREBLTPKT | Prebuilt message packets | 1-200, 5 | Optional
PKTRESTART | Packet confirms for restart | 0-9999, 2 | Optional
DLCRTY | DLC retries | 1-65535, 5 | Optional
ETHSTD | Ethernet standard | *IEEE8023, *ETHV2 | Optional
AUT | Authority | *CHANGE, *ALL, *USE, *EXCLUDE, *LIBCRTAUT | Optional

Top

NetBIOS description (NTBD)

Specifies the name of the NetBIOS configuration object being created.

This is a required parameter.

Top

Text 'description' (TEXT)

Specifies text that briefly describes the NetBIOS description.

*BLANK
Text is not specified.

'description'
Specify no more than 50 characters of text, enclosed in apostrophes.

Top

Full buffer datagrams (FULLBUFDTG)

Specifies whether to request the full transmit buffer size for datagrams.

*NO
The full transmit buffer size is not requested. The length of a datagram is equal to the transmit buffer size minus the size of the overhead, for a maximum of 512 bytes. Large messages are truncated.

Note: The size of the overhead is the sum of the sizes of the NetBIOS header (44 bytes), the LAN header (a maximum of 36 bytes), and the buffer hold overhead (a maximum of 6 bytes).

*YES
The full transmit buffer size is requested.

Top

Adaptive window interval (ADPWDWITV)

Specifies the time, in milliseconds, between runs of the adaptive window algorithm. For each link, this algorithm is used to change the values on the MAXIN and MAXOUT parameters to match the values set on the remote workstation using NetBIOS protocol. The algorithm considers the conditions of the link, including adapter receive buffers and transmission load, when changing the values.

1000
The time between runs of the adaptive window algorithm is 1000 milliseconds.

adaptive-window-interval
Specify the time between algorithm runs, in milliseconds. Valid values range from 0 through 65535.

Note: The value 0 disables the algorithm.

Top

Maximum window errors (MAXWDWERR)

Specifies the number of dropped packets the adaptive window algorithm allows before decreasing the value on the MAXOUT parameter.

0
The number of dropped packets is 0.

window-errors
Specify the number of window errors allowed. Valid values range from 0 through 10.

Top

Maximum receive data size (MAXRCVDATA)

Specifies the maximum data size in any frame that can be received in a session. The partner in the transmission limits the size to the smaller of this specified size, or the size available in the partner's transmit buffer. NetBIOS takes into account the maximum size that is forwarded by bridges in the path.

4168
The maximum data size that can be received is 4168 bytes.

maximum-receive-data-size
Specify the maximum data size that can be received, in bytes. Valid values range from 512 through 16384.

Top

Inactivity timer (INACTTMR)

Specifies the amount of time that a link can be inactive before the NetBIOS protocol driver checks to verify that the link is operational.

30000
The link can be inactive for 30000 milliseconds.

inactivity-timer
Specify the amount of time to wait for activity, in milliseconds. Valid values range from 1000 through 65535.

Top

Response timer (RSPTMR)

Specifies the amount of time to wait before again transmitting a link-level frame when no acknowledgement is received from the previous transmission.

500
The NetBIOS protocol driver waits 500 milliseconds.

response-timer
Specify the amount of time to wait, in milliseconds. Valid values range from 50 through 65535.

Top

Acknowledgement timer (ACKTMR)

Specifies the amount of time the NetBIOS protocol driver delays acknowledging a received frame, when the number of frames sent is less than the maximum specified on the MAXIN parameter.

200
The driver delays for 200 milliseconds.

acknowledgement-timer
Specify the amount of time to delay, in milliseconds. Valid values range from 50 through 65535.

Top

Maximum outstanding receives (MAXIN)

Specifies the maximum number of NetBIOS messages packets that can be received before sending an acknowledgement.

1
An acknowledgement is sent after one packet is received.

maximum-receives
Specify the number of packets to receive. Valid values range from 1 through 127.

Top

Maximum outstanding transmits (MAXOUT)

Specifies the maximum number of NetBIOS messages packets that can be sent before expecting an acknowledgement.

Note: This parameter is used only when ADPWDWITV(0) is specified.

1
An acknowledgement is expected after one packet is sent.

maximum-transmits
Specify the number of packets to send. Valid values range from 1 through 127.

Top

Query timeout (QRYTMR)

Specifies the time, in milliseconds, to wait between transmission retry attempts.

500
The time to wait is 500 milliseconds.

query-timeout
Specify a value in the range of 500 through 10000 milliseconds.

Top

NetBIOS retry (NTBRTY)

Specifies the number of transmission retries that are attempted at the NetBIOS level before assuming that the receiving party is not present.

8
The number of retries is 8.

NetBIOS-retry
Specify a value in the range of 1 through 50 attempts.

Top

Allow multiple acknowledgement (ALWMULTACK)

Specifies whether acknowledgements for received data can be combined with requests for data.

Note: When the NetBIOS protocol driver sends and receives acknowledgements with incoming data, LAN performance is improved.

*YES
The acknowledgements can be combined with data requests.

Note: Both parties to the transmission must support combining acknowledgements with data requests or this value is ignored.

*NO
The acknowledgements cannot be combined with data requests.

Top

Prebuilt message packets (PREBLTPKT)

Specifies the number of NetBIOS message packets that are prebuilt for each session.

5
The number of NetBIOS message packets is 5.

prebuilt-packets
Specify a value in the range of 1 through 200 message packets.

Top

Packet confirms for restart (PKTRESTART)

Specifies the number of transmission confirmations that must be received before sending additional packets when an out-of-resource condition occurs. The NetBIOS protocol driver stops sending packets when an out-of-resource condition is received from a port.

2
The maximum number of transmission confirmations is 2.

packet-restart
Specify the number of transmission confirmations. Valid values range from 0 through 9999.

Top

DLC retries (DLCRTY)

Specifies the number of additional transmission attempts that will be made before assuming that the receiving data control link (DLC) layer is not responding.

5
The additional number of transmission attempts is 5.

DLC-retries
Specify a value in the range of 1 through 65535 attempts.

Top

Ethernet standard (ETHSTD)

Specifies the Ethernet standard frame type that is used for NetBIOS communication.

*IEEE8023
IEEE 802.3 frames are used.

*ETHV2
Ethernet Version 2 frames are used.

Top

Authority (AUT)

Specifies the authority you are giving to users who do not have specific authority for the object, who are not on an authorization list, and whose group profile or supplemental group profiles do not have specific authority for the object.

*CHANGE
The user can perform all operations on the object except those limited to the owner or controlled by object existence (*OBJEXIST) and object management (*OBJMGT) authorities. The user can change and perform basic functions on the object. *CHANGE authority provides object operational (*OBJOPR) authority and all data authority. If the object is an authorization list, the user cannot add, change, or remove users.

*ALL
The user can perform all operations except those limited to the owner or controlled by authorization list management (*AUTLMGT) authority. The user can control the object's existence, specify the security for the object, change the object, and perform basic functions on the object. The user also can change ownership of the object.

*USE
The user can perform basic operations on the object, such as running a program or reading a file. The user cannot change the object. Use (*USE) authority provides object operational (*OBJOPR), read (*READ), and execute (*EXECUTE) authorities.

*EXCLUDE
The user cannot access the object.

*LIBCRTAUT
The system determines the authority for the object by using the value specified for the Create authority (CRTAUT) parameter on the Create Library (CRTLIB) command for the library containing the object to be created. If the value specified for the CRTAUT parameter is changed, the new value will not affect any existing objects.

name
Specify the name of an authorization list to be used for authority to the object. Users included in the authorization list are granted authority to the object as specified in the list. The authorization list must exist when the object is created.

Top

Examples

CRTNTBD NTBD(MYNETBIOS) ADPWDWITV(6000)

This command creates a NetBIOS description named MYNETBIOS specifying that the adapter window algorithm is to be run every 6000 milliseconds (6 seconds).

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF26C3
IPX description &1 not created due to errors.

CPF27A6
NetBIOS description &1 not created due to errors.

Top