Record format

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Define physical and logical files using DDS > Positional entries for physical and logical files (positions 1 through 44) > Name for physical and logical files (positions 19 through 28)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Define physical and logical files using DDS > Positional entries for physical and logical files (positions 1 through 44) > Name for physical and logical files (positions 19 through 28)

Record format

When you specify R in position 17, the name specified in positions
19 through 28 is a record format name.

Record format for physical filesOnly one record
format name is allowed for a physical file. Specify the record format name
in one of the following two ways:
As the name of a new record format with field names specified in this
physical file. The name of the record format can be the same as the file
name specified in the Create Physical File (CRTPF) command. However, a warning
message appears if the names are not unique because some high-level language
processors do not allow record format and file names to be the same. Report
Program Generator (RPG) is such a high-level language. The record format name
and field names do not need to be unique to the system; the same names can
exist in another file.

As the name of a record format previously defined in another physical
file. The FORMAT keyword must be specified. Field names and attributes
are not specified.

Record format for simple- and multiple-format logical filesYou can specify more than one record
format name. However, each name must be unique within the file. See the appropriate
high-level language manual for exceptions.
Specify the record format
name in one of the following three ways:
As the record format name in the first physical file specified on the
PFILE keyword. This is required if you do not specify the FORMAT keyword
and do not identify individual fields by naming them in this record format.

As the name of a new record format with field names specified in this
logical file. Every field must be identified by name. No unnamed physical
file fields are part of this logical file record format. Physical file fields
that are parameters of RENAME and CONCAT keywords are part of the logical
file record format. Physical file fields that are parameters of SST keywords
are not part of the logical file record format unless specified elsewhere.

As the name of a record format previously described in a physical or logical
file. Field names and attributes are not specified and the FORMAT keyword
must be specified.

The record format name can be the same as the file name specified
in the create file command. However, a warning message is sent if the names
are not unique. Some high-level language processors, such as RPG, do not allow
record format and file names to be the same.
Use the PFILE keyword in
conjunction with the record format name to specify the physical files with
which the record format is to be associated. A record format can have more
than one physical file specified on the PFILE keyword. If no fields are defined
and the FORMAT keyword is not specified, the format of the first file specified
in the PFILE keyword is used as the format for all the physical files. (This
format is used for field attribute references and attribute and name checking.)

Join logical filesOnly
one record format name can be specified. Specify the record format name as
the name of a new record format with field names specified in this logical
file. Every field in the record format for a join logical file must be identified
by the name in positions 19 through 28. Physical file fields that are parameters
of the RENAME, CONCAT, and SST keywords are part of the logical file record
format only if you specify the field names elsewhere in the record format.
The
JFILE keyword is required at the record level. It specifies the physical files
that the record format joins.