Monitor Save While Active (MONSWABRM)

Monitor Save While Active (MONSWABRM)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Monitor Save While Active (MONSWABRM) command reviews the save while active message queue and looks for the message indicating the end of library synchronization. When synchronization is detected, you can issue a command to the system.

The MONSWABRM command can be used as an exit (*EXIT) special value in a control group during backup processing.

To use this command, you must have the Backup Recovery and Media Services for IBM i licensed program installed.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
LIB | Saved library | Name, *MSGQ | Required, Positional 1
CMD | Command to run | Command string | Required, Positional 2
JOBD | Job description | Single values: *USRPRF
Other values: Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Job description | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
JOBQ | Job queue | Single values: *JOBD
Other values: Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Job queue | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
WAITMSG | Time limit in seconds | 1-999999, 3600, *NOMAX | Optional
MSGQ | Message queue | Name | Optional
SYNCID | Multiple save synchronization | Element list | Optional
Element 1: Synchronization ID | Name, *NONE
NUMSYNC | Number of operations | 2-32, 2 | Optional
STRSAVWAIT | Start save wait time | 1-99999, 600, *NOMAX | Optional

Top

Saved library (LIB)

Specifies the name of the library or message queue that you want to review for synchronization during a save while active operation.

This is a required parameter.

library-name
Specify the name of the library that you want to review for synchronization.

*MSGQ
When you specify *MSGQ, you must specify a message queue name in the Message queue (MSGQ) parameter. The message queue name that you specify is reviewed for synchronization.

Top

Command to run (CMD)

Specifies the command that you want to process when library synchronization is achieved during a save while active operation. For instance, you may want to restart a subsystem once synchronization has occurred for the library you are saving.

Note: Effective use of MONSWABRM in a control group requires that you specify *LIB, *SYNCLIB, *SYSDFN, *SYNC, *NWSSTG, *NWSSYNC or *YES for "Save while active" in the control group entry for the monitored library, and that the *EXIT entry precedes the control group entry for the monitored library.

This is a required parameter.

Top

Job description (JOBD)

Specifies the job description used with this job.

Single values

*USRPRF
The job description in the user profile under which the submitted job runs is used as the job description of the submitted job.

Qualifier 1: Job description

name
Specify the name of the job description used for the job.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
The library list is used to locate the job description.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is used to locate the job description. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, QGPL is used.

name
Specify the name of the library where the job description is located.

Top

Job queue (JOBQ)

Specifies the job queue in which this job is placed. This job queue must be different from the job queue in which the control group will run, so that the MONSWABRM command will run at the same time with the control group.

Single values

*JOBD
The submitted job is placed on the job queue named in the specified job description.

Qualifier 1: Job queue

name
Specify the name of the job queue on which the submitted job is placed.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
The library list is used to locate the job queue.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is used to locate the job queue. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, QGPL is used.

name
Specify the name of the library where the job queue is located.

Top

Time limit in seconds (WAITMSG)

Specifies the time in seconds that the MONSWABRM command should wait for the library synchronization message in the job queue. If the specified time is exceeded, the MONSWABRM command will stop monitoring the message queue. The time can be specified from 1 to 999999 seconds, with a default time of 3600 seconds (1 hour).

3600
The default time limit is one hour.

*NOMAX
The program waits indefinitely for the arrival of the library synchronization message.

time-limit-in-seconds
Specify the time limit in seconds. The time can range from 1 to 999999 seconds.

Top

Message queue (MSGQ)

Specifies the name of the message queue that you want to review for synchronization. This parameter is required when *MSGQ is specified in the Saved library (LIB) parameter.

message-queue-name
Specify the name of the message queue that you want to review for synchronization during a save while active operation.

Restriction:

- The message queue name specified must match the name used on the SWA Message Queue field on the control group entries intended to be monitored, or the name specified in the Save active message queue (SAVACTMSGQ) parameter specified in the BRMS save command(s) intended to be monitored.
MONSWABRM will create a message queue in library QUSRBRM, if the message queue does not exist.

MONSWABRM will delete the message queue once the checkpoint has been reached.

If you do not use MONSWABRM all the messages are left in the message queue.

Top

Synchronization ID (SYNCID)

Specifies the name of the synchronized checkpoint. This name must also be specified for the Synchronization ID (SYNCID) parameter for each of the participating save operations.

*NONE
The checkpoint for this save while active operation is not synchronized with any other save while active operations.

name
Specify the name of the synchronized checkpoint.

The Start Save Synchronization (STRSAVSYNC) command will be issued to start synchronizing the checkpoints for more than one save while active operation across multiple save operations.

Note: The values of the Number of operations (NUMSYNC) and Start save wait time (STRSAVWAIT) parameters will be ignored if *NONE is specified for this parameter.

Top

Number of operations (NUMSYNC)

Specifies the number of save while active operations that will have synchronized checkpoints. All of the operations must start within the amount of time specified for the Start save wait time (STRSAVWAIT) parameter

2
Two save while active operations will participate in the synchronized checkpoint.

2-32
Specify the number of save while active operations that will participate in the synchronized checkpoint.

Top

Start save wait time (STRSAVWAIT)

Specifies the amount of time to wait for all of the participating save operations to be started. If the number of participating save operations specified for the Number of operations (NUMSYNC) parameter do not start within the specified time, any operations that do start within that time will be ended.

600
The system waits up to 600 seconds for all of the participating save operations to begin.

*NOMAX
There is no maximum wait time.

1-99999
Specify the number of seconds to wait for all of the participating save operations to begin.

Top

Examples for MONSWABRM

Example 1: Processing a Command after Synchronization

MONSWABRM LIB(GLLIB) CMD(SBMJOB JOB(GLDAILY))

This command will submit the GLDAILY job when the synchronization message is sent during the save of library GLLIB.

Top

Error messages for MONSWABRM

*ESCAPE Messages

BRM1917
Feature not installed.

BRM1921
Feature not licensed.

BRM40A2
BRMS product initialization required.

CPF9800
All CPF98xx messages could be signaled. xx is from 01 to FF.

Top