BINARY

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

BINARY
The BINARY function returns a BINARY representation of
a string of any type.
BINARY(string-expression,integer)
The result of the function is a fixed-length binary string.
If the first argument can be null, the result can be null; if the
first argument is null, the result is the null value.
string-expression
A string-expression whose value must be a built-in character
string, graphic string, binary string, or row ID data type.
integer
An integer constant that specifies the length attribute
for the resulting binary string. The value must be between 1 and 32766.
If integer is not specified:
If the string-expression is the empty string constant,
the length attribute of the result is 1.
Otherwise, the length attribute of the result is the same as the
length attribute of the first argument, unless the argument is a graphic
string. In this case, the length attribute of the result is twice
the length attribute of the argument.

The actual length is the same as the length attribute of the
result. If the length of the string-expression is less than
the length of the result, the result is padded with hexadecimal zeroes
up to the length of the result. If the length of the string-expression is
greater than the length attribute of the result, truncation is performed.
A warning (SQLSTATE 01004) is returned unless the first input argument
is a character string and all the truncated characters are blanks,
or the first input argument is a graphic string and all the truncated
characters are double-byte blanks, or the first input argument is
a binary string and all the truncated bytes are hexadecimal zeroes.

NoteSyntax alternatives: The CAST
specification should be used to increase the portability of applications
when the length is specified. For more information, see CAST specification.
ExampleThe following function returns a BINARY for the string 'This is
a BINARY'.   SELECT BINARY('This is a BINARY')
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1

Parent topic: Scalar functions