allowextra (default no)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes > XML-INTO (Parse an XML Document into a Variable) > %DATA and %XML options for DATA-GEN, DATA-INTO, and XML-INTO > %DATA and %XML options for DATA-GEN, DATA-INTO, and XML-INTO

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes > XML-INTO (Parse an XML Document into a Variable) > %DATA and %XML options for DATA-GEN, DATA-INTO, and XML-INTO

allowextra (default no)

The allowextra option is used for DATA-GEN, DATA-INTO and XML-INTO.

For the situation where the document has data
that is not needed for assignment to the subfields of an RPG data
structure, you can use the allowextra option to indicate
whether this is considered an error. Data is considered to be
extra in the following circumstances:

For data matching an RPG data structure, if non-whitespace
text content is found.

For data matching an array subfield of an RPG data structure,
if the number of items in the document is greater than the dimension of the
RPG subfield array.

For data matching an RPG scalar variable (neither data structure
nor unindexed array), if the item contains child items,
other than the special formatting attributes allowed for
some data types for the XML-INTO operation (see Rules for transferring data to RPG variables for XML-INTO and DATA-INTO).

If unexpected data is found, and 'allowextra=yes' is not specified,
the operation will fail with status 00353 (XML does not match the RPG
variable) or 00356 (The document for DATA-INTO does not match the RPG variable).

Warning: At any time, for the XML-INTO operation, XML attributes for
non-data-structure XML elements elements may be subject to interpretation
by the RPG runtime. Currently, "fmt" and "adjust" are already being
interpreted by the RPG runtime for some target data types. Support
for other attributes may be added at any time, possibly even through
PTFs. If an attribute is being ignored by option 'allowextra=yes',
and that attribute becomes meaningful for the RPG runtime, it may
affect the handling of the data.

no indicates that the items in the document
used to set the RPG variable or array elements must contain only the
data necessary to set the variable.

yes indicates that additional data in the document will be ignored.

Examples of the allowextra option with extra elements for a subfield array

Examples of the allowextra option with XML data not corresponding to RPG subfields

Examples of the allowextra option with unexpected non-text content for a scalar variable or subfield

Parent topic: %DATA and %XML options for DATA-GEN, DATA-INTO, and XML-INTO