Analyze Performance Data (ANZPFRDTA)

Analyze Performance Data (ANZPFRDTA)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Analyze Performance Data (ANZPFRDTA) command produces recommendations to improve the performance of the user's system. In the interactive mode, you can request that the system make the recommended changes. In the batch mode, the recommended changes are printed, and you must then enter the individual commands to make the recommended changes.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
MBR | Member | Name, *SELECT | Optional, Positional 1
LIB | Library | Name, QPFRDATA | Optional, Positional 2
OUTPUT | Output | *, *PRINT | Optional, Positional 3
PERIOD | Time period for report | Element list | Optional
Element 1: | Element list
Element 1: Starting time | Time, *FIRST, *SELECT
Element 2: Starting date | Date, *FIRST
Element 2: | Element list
Element 1: Ending time | Time, *LAST
Element 2: Ending date | Date, *LAST
DATATYPE | Data type | *ALL, *SAMPLE | Optional

Top

Member (MBR)

Specifies the member that contains the performance data collected by Collections Services from the Operations Navigator interface.

*SELECT
An interval selection display is shown from which you can select one or more intervals for inclusion. This value is valid only in the interactive mode.

name
Specify the name of the member containing the performance data.

Top

Library (LIB)

Specifies the library where the performance data is located.

QPFRDATA
The performance data files are located in the IBM-supplied performance data library, QPFRDATA.

name
Specify the name of the library where the performance database files are located.

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether the output is printed or displayed.

*
Output requested by an interactive job is shown on the display. Output requested by a batch job is printed with the job's spooled output.

*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output.

Top

Time period for report (PERIOD)

Specifies the period of time on which to report. The parameter consists of four elements: a starting time and date, and an ending time and date. Data collected prior to the starting time on the starting date and after the ending time on the ending date is not included in the report.

The symbol *N can be used to designate the default value for any of the four elements.

Element 1: Starting time and date

Element 1: Starting time

*FIRST
Data records starting from the beginning of the first day (00:00:00) of the collection period are included.

*SELECT
An interval selection screen is displayed from which you can select one or more intervals for inclusion. This value is valid only in the interactive environment. If this value is used, the remaining values of this parameter (starting time and date and ending time and date) are ignored.

time
Specify the time of the first data record to include in the report, using the format, hhmm or hhmmss, where hh is the hours, mm is the minutes, and ss is the seconds.
The time is specified in 24-hour format with or without a time separator:

- Without a time separator, specify a string of 4 or 6 digits (hhmm or hhmmss) where hh = hours, mm = minutes, and ss = seconds.

- With a time separator, specify a string of 5 or 8 digits where the time separator specified for your job is used to separate the hours, minutes, and seconds. If you enter this command from the command line, the string must be enclosed in apostrophes. If a time separator other than the separator specified for your job is used, this command will fail.

Element 2: Starting date

*FIRST
Data records starting from the first day of the collection period are included in the report.

date
Specify the date of the first data record to include in the report. The date must be entered in the format specified by the system value QDATFMT, and if separators are used, as specified by the system value QDATSEP.

Element 2: Ending time and date

Element 1: Ending time

*LAST
Data records through the end of the day (23:59:59) are included in the report.

time
Specify the time of the last data record to include in the report. Use the same format used for the starting time.

Element 2: Ending date

*LAST
Data records through the last day of the collection period are included in the report.

date
Specify the date of the last record to include in the report. The date must be entered in the format specified by the system value QDATFMT, and if separators are used, as specified by the system value QDATSEP.

Top

Report option (DATATYPE)

Specifies the type of data that is analyzed.

*ALL
All data (sample data and trace data) is analyzed.

*SAMPLE
Only sample data is analyzed.

Top

Examples

ANZPFRDTA

This command provides recommendations for improving the performance of the system.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

PFR1010
Cannot process request because of missing data.

PFR5501
Performance data file(s) are not upward compatible.

PFR5502
Performance data file(s) are not downward compatible.

PFR7003
Cannot show performance data.

PFR7005
Cannot show performance data.

Top