Displaying the call stack

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging original program model programs > Debugging original program model programs

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging original program model programs

Displaying the call stack
To display the call stack, use the Display
Debug (DSPDBG) command.
The call stack indicates:
Which programs are currently being debugged
The instruction number of the calling instruction or the instruction number
of each breakpoint at which program processing is stopped
The program recursion level
The names of the programs that are in debug mode but have not been called

A call of a program is the allocation of automatic storage
for the program and the transfer of machine processing to the program. A series
of calls is placed in a call stack. When a program finishes processing or
transfers control, it is removed from the call stack.
A program may
be called a number of times while the first call is still in the call stack.
Each call of a program is a recursion level of the program.
When a call
is ended (the program returns or transfers control), automatic storage is
returned to the system.
Notes: CL programs can be recursive; that is, a CL program can call itself either
directly or indirectly through a program it has called.
Some high-level languages do not allow recursive program calls. Other
languages allow not only programs to be recursive, but also procedures within
a program to be recursive. (In this guide, the term recursion level refers
to the number of times the program has been called in the call stack. A procedure's
recursion level is referred to explicitly as the procedure recursion level.)
All CL commands and displays make use of only the program qualified name
recursion level.

Program activations
An activation of a program is the allocation of static storage
for the program.

Parent topic: Debugging original program model programs

Related tasks
Controlling flow and communicating between programs and procedures

Related information
Display Debug (DSPDBG) command