SET variable

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

SET variable
The SET variable statement produces a result table consisting
of at most one row and assigns the values in that row to variables.
InvocationThis statement can
be embedded in an application program. It is an executable statement
that can be dynamically prepared if the all variables being set are
global variables. It must not be specified in REXX.
AuthorizationIf a row-fullselect is
specified, see fullselect for an explanation
of the authorization required for each subselect.
If
a global variable is specified on the left hand side of the assignment,
the privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement must
include at least one of the following:
The WRITE privilege on the global variable.
Database administrator authority

SyntaxSET,variable = expressionNULLDEFAULT(,variable) = (,expressionNULLDEFAULTrow-fullselect)row-fullselectWITHRECURSIVE,common-table-expressionfullselect
Descriptionvariable, ...
Identifies one or more variables or host structures that must
be declared in accordance with the rules for declaring variables (see References to host variables). A host structure is logically replaced
by a list of variables that represent each of the elements of the
host structure. The value to be assigned to each variable can
be specified immediately following the variable,
for example, variable = expression, variable = expression.
Or, sets of parentheses can be used to specify all the variables and
then all the values, for example, (variable, variable)
= (expression, expression).
The
data type of each variable must be compatible with its corresponding
result column. Each assignment is made according to the rules described
in Assignments and comparisons. The number of variables specified
to the left of the equal operator must equal the number of values
in the corresponding result specified to the right of the equal operator.
If the value is null, an indicator variable must be provided. If an
assignment error occurs, the value is not assigned to the variable,
and no more values are assigned to variables. Any values that have
already been assigned to variables remain assigned.
If an error
occurs as the result of an arithmetic expression in the expression or
SELECT list of the subselect (division by zero, or overflow) or a
character conversion error occurs, the result is the null value. As
in any other case of a null value, an indicator variable must be provided.
The value of the variable is undefined. In this case, however, the
indicator variable is set to -2. Processing of the statement continues
as if the error had not occurred. (However, a warning is returned.)
If you do not provide an indicator variable, an error is returned.
It is possible that some values have already been assigned to variables
and will remain assigned when the error occurs.

expression
Specifies
the new value of the variable. The expression is
any expression of the type described in Expressions.
It must not include a column name.
NULL
Specifies
that the new value for the variable is the null value.
DEFAULT
Specifies
that the new value for the variable is its initial default value.
DEFAULT can only be assigned to a global variable. Only one variable
can be assigned in the SET statement when DEFAULT is used.
row-fullselect
A
fullselect that returns a single result row. The result column values
are assigned to each corresponding variable.
If the result of the fullselect is no rows, then null values are assigned.
An error is returned if there is more than one row in the result.
WITH common-table-expression
Specifies a common table expression. For an explanation of common
table expression, see common-table-expression.
fullselect
A fullselect that
returns a single result row. The result column values are assigned
to each corresponding variable. If the result
of the fullselect is no rows, then null
values are assigned. An error is returned if there is more than one
row in the result.

NotesVariable
assignment: If the specified variable is character and is not
large enough to contain the result, a warning (SQLSTATE 01004) is
returned (and 'W' is assigned to SQLWARN1 in the SQLCA). The actual
length of the result is returned in the indicator variable associated
with the variable, if an indicator variable is provided.
If the specified variable is a C NUL-terminated variable
and is not large enough to contain the result and the NUL-terminator:
If the *CNULRQD option is specified on the CRTSQLCI or CRTSQLCPPI
command (or CNULRQD(*YES) on the SET OPTION statement), the following
occurs: The result is truncated.
The last character is the NUL-terminator.
The value ‘W' is assigned to SQLWARN1 in the SQLCA.

If the *NOCNULRQD option on the CRTSQLCI or CRTSQLCPPI command
(or CNULRQD(*NO) on the SET OPTION statement) is specified, the following
occurs: The NUL-terminator is not returned.
The value ‘N' is assigned to SQLWARN1 in the SQLCA.

Multiple assignments: If more than one assignment
is included in the same SET statement, all expressions and row-fullselects
are completely evaluated before the assignments are performed. Thus,
references to a target variable in an expression or row-fullselect are
always the value of the target variable prior to any assignment in
the SET statement.
ExamplesExample 1: Assign the value
of the CURRENT PATH special register to host variable HV1.
EXEC SQL SET :HV1 = CURRENT PATH;

Example 2: Assume that LOB locator LOB1 is associated
with a CLOB value. Assign a portion of the CLOB value to host variable
DETAILS using the LOB locator.
EXEC SQL SET :DETAILS = SUBSTR(:LOB1,1,35);

Parent topic: Statements