Analyze User Objects (ANZUSROBJ)

Analyze User Objects (ANZUSROBJ)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Analyze User Objects (ANZUSROBJ) command collects or reports information for user-created objects on the system. It can be used to determine whether source exists which is likely to have been used in the creation of user objects.

Restrictions:

- The user must have *ALLOBJ special authority.

- This command, especially the *COLLECT stage, can be very long running. It is suggested that this command be executed in batch.

- There are three types of objects which are analyzed and reported on. They are:

Objects that appear to be created from source that is not available on the system.

Objects which often contain user data but are not created from source.

Source files which often contain source members which are part of an application but are not compiled into objects. Examples of these are REXX and FMTDTA source members.

Note that objects previously saved with STG(*FREE) are not analyzed to the same level of detail as other objects. This is done that so automatic retrieval systems are less likely to automatically restore the objects.

When an object is listed the following information is reported:

Object name: the name of the user object. For files containing source members this will be blank for the member entries. The members will follow the file within the report.

Object type: the type of the object. For files containing source members this will be the member extension for the member entries.

Object extension: also used for source member name when listing REXX and FMTDTA members.

Text: text description associated with the object or source member.

Source last changed date/time: the date of last change for source found. If blank, this indicates the source is not available on the system or the object is an ILE program or service program which is created from modules and not source directly.

Object creation source date/time: the date of last change for source used in the creation of the object. If blank, this indicates the object was not created from source or the object is an ILE program or service program which is created from modules and not source directly.

Lines: the number of lines of source found.

*: A column where a '1' indicates the object has not been used in the last twelve months.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
OPTION | Option | Values (up to 2 repetitions): *COLLECT, *REPORT | Required, Positional 1
RPTTYPE | Type of report | Values (up to 3 repetitions): *ALL, *SYSSUM, *LIBSUM, *LIBDTL | Optional
LIB | Libraries to analyze | Generic name, name, *ALLUSR | Optional
ASPDEV | ASP device | Name, *ALL, *SYSBAS | Optional

Top

Option (OPTION)

Specifies whether data collection, data reporting, or both should be done.

The possible values are:

*COLLECT
User object data in all user libraries is searched and collected for later analysis. If more than 333,000 libraries exist on the system, collection will be limited to the first 333,000 libraries. Performance will be better if less than 17,000 objects exist per library. If more than 333,000 objects exist in one library, collection will be limited to the first 333,000 objects in the library.

*REPORT
User object data is analyzed and reported for the libraries specified (LIB parameter).

Top

Type of report (RPTTYPE)

Specifies the types of user object reports that are to be generated.

The possible values are:

*ALL
The system summary, library summary, and library detail user object analysis reports are generated.

*SYSSUM
The system summary report is generated.

*LIBSUM
The library summary report is generated.

*LIBDTL
The library detail report is generated.

Top

Libraries to analyze (LIB)

Specifies the libraries to be analyzed when generating reports.

The possible values are:

*ALLUSR
All user libraries are analyzed.

generic*-library-name
Specify the generic name of the library or group of libraries to be analyzed. To specify a generic library name, add an asterisk (*) at the end of the character string common to the names of all the libraries to analyze.

library-name
Specify the full name of the library to analyze.

Top

ASP device (ASPDEV)

Specifies the name of the ASP device to be analyzed when generating reports.

The possible values are:

*ALL
All ASP devices should be analyzed.

*SYSBAS
Only the system ASP and defined basic user ASPs should be analyzed.

ASP-device-name
Specify the ASP name that should be analyzed.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Collecting Object Information

ANZUSROBJ OPTION(*COLLECT)

Information for user objects is all user libraries is collected for later analysis.

Example 2: Generate Object Information Reports

ANZUSROBJ OPTION(*REPORT) LIB(MYLIB*)

Information previously collected by running ANZUSROBJ with OPTION(*COLLECT) will be analyzed for all libraries with names that begin with 'MYLIB'. System summary, library summary, and library detail user object analysis reports will be generated.

Top

Error messages

None

Top