KFLD (Define Parts of a Key)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes > Operation Codes

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes

KFLD (Define Parts of a Key)

Free-Form Syntax

(not allowed - use %KDS)

Code

Factor 1

Factor 2

Result Field

Indicators

KFLD

 

Indicator

Key field

 

 

 

The KFLD operation is a declarative operation that indicates that
a field is part of a search argument identified by a KLIST name.

The KFLD operation can be specified anywhere within calculations,
including total calculations. The control level entry (positions
7 and 8) can be blank or can contain an L1 through L9 indicator,
an LR indicator, or an L0 entry to group the statement within the
appropriate section of the program. Conditioning indicator entries
(positions 9 through 11) are not permitted.

KFLDs can be global or local. A KLIST in a cycle-main procedure
can have only global KFLDs associated with it. A KLIST in a subprocedure
can have local and global KFLDs. For more information, see Scope of Definitions.

Factor 2 can contain an indicator for a null-capable key field
if ALWNULL(*USRCTL) is specified as a keyword
on a control specification or as a command parameter.

If the indicator is on, the key fields with null values are selected.
If the indicator is off or not specified, the key fields with null
values are not selected. See Keyed Operations for information
on how to access null-capable keys.

The result field must contain the name of a field that is to be
part of the search argument. The result field cannot contain an array
name. Each KFLD field must agree in length, data type, and decimal
position with the corresponding field in the composite key of the
record or file. However, if the record has a variable-length KFLD
field, the corresponding field in the composite key must be varying
but does not need to be the same length. Each KFLD field need not
have the same name as the corresponding field in the composite key.
The order the KFLD fields are specified in the KLIST determines which
KFLD is associated with a particular field in the composite key.
For example, the first KFLD field following a KLIST operation is associated
with the leftmost (high-order) field of the composite key.

Graphic and UCS-2 key fields must have the same CCSID as the key
in the file.

Figure 1 shows an example of the KLIST operation with
KFLD operations.

Figure 2 illustrates how keyed operations are used
to position and retrieve records with null keys.

For more information, see Declarative Operations.

Parent topic: Operation Codes