Add Optical Server (ADDOPTSVR)

Add Optical Server (ADDOPTSVR)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Add Optical Server (ADDOPTSVR) command enables access, using the hierarchical file system (HFS) APIs, to a remotely attached optical server. This command retrieves a list of optical volumes in each server and adds them to the optical index database allowing the volumes to be accessed using the HFS APIs. If a remote optical server is already enabled, you can use this command to refresh the volume list for that server.

Restrictions:

- You must have *USE authority to use this command. It is shipped with *EXCLUDE public authority.

- To use a remote optical server, the users must have the library that contains the communications side information for that destination in their library list.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
CSI | Side information | Values (up to 16 repetitions): Qualified object name | Required, Positional 1
Qualifier 1: Side information | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB

Top

Side information (CSI)

Specifies the communications side information (*CSI) object of the optical server to be added to the optical configuration. The communications side information object name is also referred to as the optical server name or the optical destination name. A maximum of 16 qualified names of servers can be specified.

Qualifier 1: Side information

communications-side-information-object-name
Specify the name of the communications side information object representing the optical server.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the job's library list are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is searched. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, the QGPL library is used.

library-name
Specify the name of the library to be searched.

Top

Examples

ADDOPTSVR CSI((QGPL/LAN01))

This command enables access to the optical server defined by the communications side information object name LAN01 in library QGPL.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

OPT0125
Command &1 completed with errors, more information in job log.

OPT6712
Remote optical server volume list rebuild failed.

Top