INVITE (Invite) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

INVITE (Invite) keyword for display files

You use this file-level or record-level keyword to
invite the device for a later read operation.

To send an invite to a specific device, your program sends an
output operation to the device with the INVITE keyword in effect. If the record
format used has output-capable fields, the data is sent to the device before
the device is invited.
This keyword has no parameters.
INVITE
must be used if the display file can have multiple acquired devices and your
program does read from invited devices operations. This is because a read
from invited devices to a multiple device display file only returns a record
from one of the devices that was invited. If you want all the acquired devices
to be able to return data, an output operation with INVITE in effect must
be sent to each device before the read from invited devices. Even if there
is only one device acquired on the multiple device file, the device must be
invited via INVITE before a read from invited devices.
INVITE also gives
you the ability to create a subset of acquired devices that are eligible to
respond on a read from invited devices. For example, if ten devices are currently
acquired to the file but only three devices were invited, the next read from
invited devices operation returns a record from one of the three invited devices.
This is true even if the other devices have data available.
INVITE provides
some performance improvement. Normally a read request is issued to a device
when your program sends an input operation. However, INVITE allows you to
request the read when you issue the output operation. After the output operation
is complete, your program can do other processing while the device is issuing
data and the IBM® i operating
system is processing the received data. This can be a significant improvement
if the device is remote.
For specific instructions on when an invite
operation is necessary and how to specify a read from invited devices operation
in your program, see the appropriate high-level language manual.
INVITE
cannot be specified at both the file and record level and cannot be specified
with the subfile keyword (SFL).
Option indicators are valid for this
keyword.

Special considerations when using the INVITE keywordThe
following list shows special considerations when you use the INVITE keyword:

An input operation sent to a specific device does not require
an invite operation. Input operations with a specified record format name
or device are directed to one device. If that device has an invite outstanding
at the time of the input operation, the invite operation is deleted after
the input operation is completed.

After an invite operation has been sent to a device, the only
valid operations (in addition to a read-operation-from-invited-devices operation)
are these:
An input operation to a specific device.

An output operation with data that tries to cancel the invite operation.
If the cancel operation is successful, the data is written. If the INVITE
keyword is in effect on the output operation, the device is invited again.
If the cancel operation is not successful (because the data has already been
received by the system), the output operation fails. Your program must perform
an input operation to process the data. The input operation erases the invite
operation for that device.

On a read operation from invited devices operation to a display file,
only data from devices with an outstanding invite operation are considered.
The input operation waits for data from any of the invited devices. (See the
WAITRCD parameter on the Create Display File (CRTDSPF) and Change Display
File (CHGDSPF) commands.) If none of the invited devices responds before the
wait time ends, a notify message is sent and no data is returned. All invited
devices remain invited.

If more than one device obtained by the display file has an
invite operation outstanding, a read-operation-from-invited-devices
operation returns the next available record from one of the invited devices.
If records are received from more than one device before this input operation,
the other records are kept for subsequent input operations.

When a read operation from invited devices operation to a display file
returns a record to your program from an invited device, the invite operation
for that device is deleted. Other devices that have an invite outstanding
remain invited. The device that sent the record your program read must be
invited again if you want to receive data from this device on a later read
from invited devices operation.

If no device was invited or if a device was invited but the job was canceled
with the controlled option, a read operation from invited devices operation
to a display file results in a notify message and no data is returned to your
program. All invited devices remain invited.

If you want to invite a device but have no data to send it, issue an output
operation using a record format containing no output-capable fields with INVITE
in effect.

After the first record is received from an invited display device, the
device should not be re-invited until all the record formats on the display
with input-capable fields are read by your program. Your program can read
those other record formats if you specify the record format name and the device
name on the read operation.

If your display file has the delayed write option (DFRWRT(*YES) parameter
on the (Create Display File (CRTDSPF) and Change Display File (CHGDSPF) commands),
an output operation with the INVITE keyword in effect causes the delayed output
to appear on the display before the device is invited.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the INVITE keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A 01 INVITE
00020A R RCD1
00030A FLD1 10 2 2
00030A FLD2 5 2 24
AINVITE is in effect only when option indicator 01 is
set on.