Positions 47-51 (End Position)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Output Specifications > Field Description and Control Entries > Field Description and Control Entries

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Output Specifications > Field Description and Control Entries

Positions 47-51 (End Position)

Entry
Explanation

1-n

End position

K1-K10

Length of format name for WORKSTN file.

Positions 47 through 51 define the end position of a field or constant
on the output record, or define the length of the data description
specifications record format name for a program described WORKSTN
file.

The K identifies the entry as a length rather than an end position,
and the number following the K indicates the length of the record
format name. For example, if the format name is CUSPMT, the entry
in positions 50 and 51 is K6. Leading zeros are permitted following
the K, and the entry must be right-adjusted.

Valid entries for end positions are blanks, +nnnn, -nnnn,
and nnnnn. All entries in these positions must end in position 51.
Enter the position of the rightmost character of the field or constant.
The end position must not exceed the record length for the file.

If an entire array is to be written, enter the end position of
the last element in the array in positions 47 through 51. If the
array is to be edited, be careful when specifying the end position
to allow enough positions to write all edited elements. Each element
is edited according to the edit code or edit word.

The +nnnn or -nnnn entry specifies the placement of the field
or constant relative to the end position of the previous field. The
number (nnnn) must be right-adjusted, but leading zeros are not required.
Enter the sign anywhere to the left of the number within the entry
field. To calculate the end position, use these formulas:
EP = PEP +nnnn + FL
EP = PEP -nnnn + FL

EP is the calculated end position. PEP is the previous end position.
For the first field specification in the record, PEP is equal to
zero. FL is the length of the field after editing, or the length of
the constant specified in this specification. The use of +nnnn is
equivalent to placing nnnn positions between the fields. A -nnnn
causes an overlap of the fields by nnnn positions. For example, if
the previous end position (PEP) is 6, the number of positions to be
placed between the fields (nnnn) is 5, and the field length (FL) is
10, the end position (EP) equals 21.

When *PLACE is used, an actual end position must be specified;
it cannot be blank or a displacement.

An entry of blank is treated as an entry of +0000. No positions
separate the fields.

Parent topic: Field Description and Control Entries