Unit of work

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Concepts > Application processes, concurrency, and recovery > Application processes, concurrency, and recovery

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Concepts > Application processes, concurrency, and recovery

Unit of work
A unit of work (also known as a transaction, logical
unit of work, or unit of recovery) is a recoverable sequence of
operations. Each commitment definition involves the execution of one or more
units of work. At any given time, a commitment definition has a single unit
of work.
A unit of work is started either when the commitment definition is started,
or when the previous unit of work is ended by a commit or rollback operation.
A unit of work is ended by a commit operation, a rollback operation, or the
ending of the activation group. A commit or rollback operation affects only
the database changes made within the unit of work that the commit or rollback
ends. While changes remain uncommitted, other activation groups using different
commitment definitions running under isolation levels COMMIT(*CS), COMMIT(*RS),
and COMMIT(*RR) cannot perceive the changes. The changes can be backed out
until they are committed. Once changes are committed, other activation groups
running in different commitment definitions can access them, and the changes
can no longer be backed out.
The start and end of a unit of work defines points of consistency within
an activation group. For example, a banking transaction might involve the
transfer of funds from one account to another. Such a transaction would require
that these funds be subtracted from the first account, and added to the second.
Following the subtraction step, the data is inconsistent. Only after the funds
are added to the second account is consistency established again. When both
steps are complete, the commit operation can be used to end the unit of work.
After the commit operation, the changes are available to activation groups
that use different commitment definitions.
Figure 1. Unit of Work with a Commit Statement

Parent topic: Application processes, concurrency, and recovery