READ Statement - Format 4 - Transaction (Nonsubfile)

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > READ Statement > Transaction Files > Transaction Files

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > READ Statement > Transaction Files

READ Statement - Format 4 - Transaction (Nonsubfile)

READ Statement - Format 4 - Transaction (Nonsubfile)

>>-READ--file-name--+--------+--+--------------------+---------->
    '-RECORD-' '-INTO--identifier-1-'   

>--+----------------------------------+------------------------->
   '-FORMAT--+----+--+-identifier-2-+-'   
    '-IS-' '-literal-1----'    

>--+------------------------------------+----------------------->
   '-TERMINAL--+----+--+-identifier-3-+-'   
    '-IS-' '-literal-2----'    

>--+---------------------------------------+-------------------->
   '-+-INDICATOR--+--+-----+--identifier-4-'   
    +-INDICATORS-+ +-IS--+    
    '-INDIC------' '-ARE-'    

>--+---------------------------------+-------------------------->
   '-NO DATA--imperative-statement-1-'   

>--+-------------------------------------+---------------------->
   '-+----+--END--imperative-statement-2-'   
    '-AT-'    

>--+------------------------------------------+--+----------+--><
   '-NOT--+----+--END--imperative-statement-3-' '-END-READ-'   
    '-AT-'    

Format 4
is used only to read a format that is not a subfile record. The RELATIVE KEY
data item, if specified in the FILE-CONTROL entry, is not used. The
Format 4 READ statement is not valid for a subfile record; however,
a Format 4 READ statement for the subfile control record format must
be used to put those subfile records that were updated on a display
into the subfile.
If the data is available, it is returned in the record area. The
names of the record format and the program device are returned in
the I-O-FEEDBACK area and in the CONTROL-AREA.
The READ statement is valid only when there are acquired devices
for the file. If a READ is executed and there are no acquired devices,
the file status is set to 92 (logic error).
The manner in which the Format 4 READ statement functions depends
on whether: The READ is for a single device file or a multiple device file
A specific program device has been requested through the TERMINAL
phrase
A specific record format has been requested through the FORMAT
phrase
The NO DATA phrase has been specified

In the following discussions, references to “data available
or returned” include the situation where only the response indicators
are set. This is so even when a separate indicator area is used and
the indicators are not returned in the record area for the file.
The following chart shows the possible combinations of phrases,
and the function performed for a single device file or a multiple
device file. For example, if TERMINAL is N, FORMAT is N, and NO DATA
is N, then the single device is D and multiple device is A.
 
Phrase
Y=Yes N=No

Checked at Compilation
TERMINAL3
FORMAT3
NO DATA

N N N N Y Y Y Y
N N Y Y N N Y Y
N Y N Y N Y N Y

Determined at Execution
Single Device
Multiple Device

D C D B D C D B
A A D B D C D B

Codes A through D are explained below. Note: If
the phrase is specified and the data item or literal is blank, the
phrase is treated at execution time as if it were not specified.

Code A–Read From Invited Program Device (Multiple Device
Files only)
This type of READ receives data from the first invited program
device that has data available. An invited program device is a workstation
or communications device (such as APPC, SNUF, BSCEL, Asynchronous
Communications) that has been invited to send input. Inviting is
done by writing to the program device with a format that has the DDS
keyword INVITE specified. Once an invited program device is actually
read from, it is no longer invited. That program device will not
be used for input by another READ statement unless re-invited, or
unless a READ is directed to it specifying the TERMINAL phrase or
FORMAT phrase.
The record format returned from the program device is determined
by the system. For information on how this is determined for work
stations, refer to the File Systems and Management section
of the Database and File Systems category in the IBM® i
Information Center at this
Web site - http://www.ibm.com/systems/i/infocenter/. For communications
devices, see the ICF Programming manual
for more information on format selection processing for an ICF file.
This READ can complete without returning any data in the following
cases: There are no invited devices and the timer function is not in
effect. (This is the AT END condition.)
A controlled cancellation of the job occurs. This results in
a file status value of 0A and a major-minor return code value of 0309.
The NO DATA phrase is omitted and the specified wait time expires.
This results in a file status value of 00 and a major-minor return
code value of 0310. The specified wait time is the value entered
on the WAITRCD parameter for the file or the time interval specified
on the timer function.
The NO DATA phrase is specified and there is no data immediately
available when the READ is executed.

If data is available, it is returned in the record area. The record
format is returned in the I-O-FEEDBACK area and in the CONTROL-AREA.
For more information about “reading from invited program devices,”
see the Application Display Programming manual
for display stations, and the ICF Programming manual
for communications devices.
Code B–Read From One Program Device (Invalid combination)
A compilation time message is issued and the NO DATA phrase is
ignored. See the table entry for the same combination of phrases
with the NO DATA phrase omitted.
Code C–Read From One Program Device (with NO DATA phrase)
This function of the READ statement never causes program execution
to stop and wait until data is available. Either the data is immediately
available or the NO DATA imperative statement is executed.
This READ function can be used to periodically check if data is
available from a particular program device (either the default program
device or one specified by the TERMINAL phrase). This checking for
data is done in the following manner: The program device is determined as follows: If the TERMINAL phrase was omitted or contains blanks, the default
program device is used. The default program device is the one used
by the last attempted READ, WRITE, REWRITE, ACQUIRE, or DROP statement.
If none of the above I-O operations were previously executed, the
default program device is the first program device acquired.
If the TERMINAL phrase was specified, the indicated program device
is used.

A check is done to determine if data is available and if the program
device is invited.
If data is available, that data is returned in the record area
and the program device is no longer invited. If no data is immediately
available, the NO DATA imperative statement is executed and the program
device remains invited.
If the program device is not invited, the AT END condition exists
and the file status is set to 10.

Code D–Read From One Program Device (without NO DATA Phrase)
This READ always waits for data to be made available. Even if
the job receives a controlled cancellation, or a WAITRCD time is specified
for the file, the program will never regain control from the READ
statement. This READ operation is performed in the following manner: The program device is determined as follows: If the TERMINAL phrase is omitted or contains a blank value, the
default program device is used. The default program device is the
program device used by the last attempted READ, WRITE, REWRITE, ACQUIRE,
DROP or ACCEPT (Attribute Data) statement. If none of these operations
has been done, the program device implicitly acquired when the file
was opened is used. If there are no acquired devices, the AT END
condition exists.
If the TERMINAL phrase is specified, the indicated program device
is used.

The record format is determined as follows: If the FORMAT phrase is omitted or contains blanks, the record
format returned is determined by the system. For information on how
the record format is determined for workstation devices, refer to
the ICF Programming book. For information
about how the record format is determined for communications devices,
see the section on the FMTSLT parameter for the ADDICFDEVE and OVRICFDEVE
commands in the ICF Programming book.
If the FORMAT phrase is specified, the indicated record format
is returned. If the data available does not match the requested record
format, a file status of 9K is set.

Program execution stops until data becomes available. The data
is returned in the record area after the READ statement is executed.
If the program device was previously invited, it will no longer be
invited after this READ statement.

INTO Phrase
The INTO phrase cannot be specified unless: All records associated with the file and the data item specified
in the INTO phrase are group items or elementary alphanumeric items. OR

Only one record description is subordinate to the file description
entry.

KEY IS Phrase
The KEY IS phrase may be specified only for indexed files. Data-name
must identify a record key associated with file-name-1. Data-name-1
may be qualified; it may not be subscripted. Note: The KEY IS phrase
is syntax checked only and has no effect on the operation of the READ
statement.

FORMAT Phrase
Literal-1
or identifier-2 specifies the name of the record format to be read.
Literal-1, if specified, must be nonnumeric, uppercase, and 10 characters
or less in length. Identifier-2, if specified, must refer to an alphanumeric
data item, 10 characters or less in length. If identifier-2 contains
blanks, the READ statement is executed as if the FORMAT phrase were
omitted.
NO DATA Phrase
When the NO DATA phrase is specified, the READ statement will
determine whether data is immediately available. If data is available,
the data is returned in the record area. If no data is immediately
available, imperative-statement-1 is executed. The NO DATA phrase
prevents the READ statement from waiting for data to become available.
TERMINAL Phrase
Literal-2 or identifier-3 specifies the program device name. Literal-2,
if specified, must be nonnumeric and 10 characters or less in length.
Identifier-3, if specified, must refer to an alphanumeric data item,
10 characters or less in length. The program device must have been
acquired before the READ statement is executed. If identifier-3 contains
blanks, the READ statement is executed as if the TERMINAL phrase was
omitted. For a single device file, the TERMINAL phrase can be omitted.
The program device is assumed to be that single device. If the
TERMINAL phrase is omitted for a READ of a Transaction file that has
acquired multiple program devices, the default program device is used.

INDICATOR Phrase, INDICATORS Phrase, INDIC Phrase
Specifies which indicators are to be read when a data record is
read. Indicators can be used to pass information about the data record
and how it was entered into the program. Identifier-4 must be either
an elementary Boolean data item specified without the OCCURS clause
or a group item that has elementary Boolean data items subordinate
to it.
For detailed information on the INDICATORS phrase, refer
to Using Indicators with Transaction Files in the IBM Rational® Development Studio for i: ILE COBOL
Programmer's Guide.

AT END Phrase
The AT END phrase serves to explicitly delimit the scope of the
statement. Imperative-statement-2 is executed when the AT END condition
is detected. The AT END condition occurs when there are no invited
program devices and the timer function is not in effect. The AT
END phrase should be specified when no applicable USE procedure is
specified for the file-name. If the AT END phrase and a USE procedure
are both specified for a file, and the AT END condition arises, control
transfers to the AT END imperative statement and the USE procedure
is not run.

NOT AT END Phrase
This phrase allows you to specify procedures that will be performed
when the AT END condition does not exist for the statement that is
used.
END-READ Phrase
This explicit scope terminator serves to delimit the scope of
the READ statement. END-READ permits a conditional READ statement
to be nested in another conditional statement. END-READ may also be
used with an imperative READ statement. For more information, see Delimited Scope Statements.

Related Information Transaction Files

Parent topic: Transaction Files

1 If
the phrase is specified and the data item or literal is blank, the
phrase is treated at execution time as if it were not specified.