Positions 71-76 (Resulting Indicators)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Calculation Specifications > Traditional Syntax > Traditional Syntax

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Calculation Specifications > Traditional Syntax

Positions 71-76 (Resulting Indicators)

These positions can be used, for example, to test the value of a result
field after the completion of an operation, or to indicate conditions like
end-of-file, error, or record-not-found. For some operations, you can control
the way the operation is performed by specifying different combinations of
the three resulting indicators (for example, LOOKUP). The resulting indicator
positions have different uses, depending on the operation code specified.
See the individual operation codes in Operation Codes for a description
of the associated resulting indicators. For arithmetic operations, the result
field is tested only after the field is truncated and half-adjustment is done
(if specified). The setting of indicators depends on the results of the tests
specified.
Entry
Explanation

Blank

No resulting indicator specified

01-99

General indicators

KA-KN, KP-KY

Function key indicators

H1-H9

Halt indicators

L1-L9

Control level indicators

LR

Last record indicator

OA-OG, OV

Overflow indicators

U1-U8

External indicators

RT

Return indicator.

Resulting indicators cannot be used when the result field uses a non-indexed
array.

If the same indicator is used as a resulting indicator on more than one
calculation specification, the most recent specification processed determines
the status of that indicator.

Remember the following points when specifying resulting indicators:

When the calculation operation is done, the specified resulting indicators
are set off, and, if a condition specified by a resulting indicator is satisfied,
that indicator is set on.

When a control level indicator (L1 through L9) is set on, the lower level
indicators are not set on.

When a halt indicator (H1 through H9) is set on, the program ends abnormally
at the next *GETIN point in the cycle, or when a RETURN operation is processed,
unless the halt indicator is set off before the indicator is tested.

Parent topic: Traditional Syntax