Dsp Recovery for Access Paths (DSPRCYAP)

Dsp Recovery for Access Paths (DSPRCYAP)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Display Recovery for Access Paths (DSPRCYAP) command is used to show or print the access path recovery status information and target access path recovery time for the system and for all auxiliary storage pools (ASPs) that are currently active or have available status on the system. Additionally, the output will include up to 500 access paths with the largest estimated access path recovery time which are not eligible for system-managed access-path protection and why they are not eligible. Also, the output will include up to 500 access paths with the largest estimated access path recovery time which are currently being protected by system-managed access-path protection.

The system uses no more than the specified target access path recovery time when recovering access paths during an initial program load (IPL) or vary on of an independent ASP after an abnormal system end. Because access path recovery time is a target, performance may range around the target.

The time taken to rebuild access paths exposed while running the Copy File (CPYF), the Reorganize Physical File Member (RGZPFM), or the Restore Object (RSTOBJ) commands is not considered in the target access path recovery time of access paths protected with this command.

For more information on using this command, see the "Journal management" article in the IBM i Information Center at http://www.ibm.com/systems/i/infocenter/.

Restriction: You must have job control (*JOBCTL) special authority to use this command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
OUTPUT | Output | *, *PRINT | Optional, Positional 1
ASP | ASP device | Character value, *ALL, *ASPGRP | Optional
ASPGRP | ASP group | Name | Optional

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether the output from the command is shown at the requesting work station or printed with the job's spooled output.

*
The output requested by an interactive job is shown on the display. The output requested by a batch job is printed with the job's spooled output.

*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output. File QSYSPRT in QSYS is used for printed output.

Top

ASP device (ASP)

Specifies the ASP containing the access paths to be displayed.

Note: This parameter is valid only if OUTPUT(*PRINT) is selected.

*ALL
The output requested will be the top 500 access paths across all active or available ASPs.

*ASPGRP
The output requested will be the top 500 access paths across the input ASP group.

ASP-identifier
Specify a value ranging from 1 through 32 to specify the identifier of the basic user ASP from which to list the top 500 access paths. Or specify the ASP device name of the independent user ASP from which to list the top 500 access paths. Valid values depend on the ASPs active or available on the system.

Note: The value 1 is the system ASP. Values 2 to 32 denote all basic user ASPs. Independent ASPs are entered as device names.

Top

ASP group (ASPGRP)

Specifies the ASP Group containing the access paths to be displayed.

Note: This parameter is valid only if OUTPUT(*PRINT) and ASP(*ASPGRP) are specified.

ASP-group-name
Specifies the name of the auxiliary storage pool(ASP) group from which to list the top 500 access paths. The ASP group name is the name of the primary independent ASP device within the ASP group.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Displaying All Recovery Times for Access Paths

DSPRCYAP

This command shows the target access path recovery times and recovery status information for the system and active or available auxiliary storage pools. Output from the command is shown on the workstation if the command is run interactively, or printed with the job's spooled output if the command is run in batch.

Example 2: Printing Recovery Times for Access Paths for an ASP Group

DSPRCYAP OUTPUT(*PRINT) ASP(*ASPGRP) ASPGRP(WAREHUS1)

This command shows the target access path recovery times and recovery status information for the independent ASP group WAREHUS1. Output from the command is printed with the job's spooled output.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF70FB
No authority to use command.

CPF70F4
Error occurred.

CPF700F
Access path recovery time for &1 set to *NONE.

CPF702E
Access path recovery times set to system defaults.

CPF9814
Device &1 not found.

CPF9825
Not authorized to device &1.

CPF9871
Error occurred while processing.

CPFB8ED
Device description &1 not correct for operation.

Top