select-clause

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > subselect > subselect

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > subselect

select-clause
The SELECT clause specifies the columns of the final result
table.
SELECTALLDISTINCT*,expressionAScolumn-nametable-name.*view-name.*correlation-name.*
The column values are produced by
the application of the select list to R. The select list is
the names or expressions specified in the SELECT clause, and R is
the result of the previous operation of the subselect. For example,
if the only clauses specified are SELECT, FROM, and WHERE, R is the
result of that WHERE clause.
ALL
Selects
all rows of the final result table and does not eliminate duplicates.
This is the default.
DISTINCT
Eliminates
all but one of each set of duplicate rows of the final result table.
Two rows are duplicates of one another only if each value in the first
row is equal to the corresponding value in the second row. (For determining
duplicate rows, two null values are considered equal.) The collating
sequence is also used for determining distinct values. DISTINCT
is not allowed if the select-list contains a DATALINK or XML
column, or an expression that returns a value that is the XML data
type.
Column access controls do not affect the operation
of SELECT DISTINCT. The elimination of duplicated rows is based on
the original column values, not the masked values. However, after
the application of column masks, the masked values in the final result
table might not reflect the uniqueness that is enforced by SELECT
DISTINCT.
If a column mask is applied to a column
that directly or indirectly derives the result of SELECT DISTINCT,
SELECT DISTINCT can return a result that is not deterministic. The
following conditions are a few examples of when a result that is not
deterministic might be returned:The definition of the column mask references other columns of
the table to which the column mask is applied.
The column is referenced in the argument of a built-in scalar
function, such as COALESCE, IFNULL, NULLIF, MAX, MIN, LOCATE, etc.
The column is referenced in the argument of an aggregate function.
The column is embedded in an expression and the expression contains
a function that is not deterministic or has an external action.

Select list notation

Applying the select list

Null attributes of result columns

Names of result columns

Data types of result columns

Parent topic: subselect