String Operations

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operations > Operations

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operations

String Operations

The string operations are shown in the following table.

Table 1. String Operations.

Operation

Traditional Syntax

Free-Form Syntax

Concatenate

CAT (Concatenate Two Strings)

+ operator

Concatenate strings with a separator

 

%CONCAT (Concatenate with Separator)

Concatenate array elements with a separator

 

%CONCATARR (Concatenate Array Elements with Separator)

Convert to lower case

 

%LOWER (Convert to Lower Case)

Convert to upper case

 

%UPPER (Convert to Upper Case)

Check

CHECK (Check Characters)

%CHECK (Check Characters)

Check Reverse

CHECKR (Check Reverse)

%CHECKR (Check Reverse)

Create

 

%STR (Get or Store Null-Terminated String)

Replace

 

%REPLACE (Replace Character String)

Scan

SCAN (Scan String)

%SCAN (Scan for Characters)

Scan Reverse

 

%SCANR (Scan Reverse for Characters)

Scan and Replace

 

%SCANRPL (Scan and Replace Characters)

Split a string

 

%SPLIT (Split String into Substrings)

Substring

SUBST (Substring)

%SUBST (Get Substring)
%LEFT (Get Leftmost Characters)
%RIGHT (Get Rightmost Characters)

Translate

XLATE (Translate)

%XLATE (Translate)

Trim Blanks

 

%TRIM (Trim Characters at Edges)
%TRIML (Trim Leading Characters)
%TRIMR (Trim Trailing Characters)

Return the leftmost characters of a string

 

%LEFT (Get Leftmost Characters)

Return the number of bytes for alphanumeric or double bytes for UCS-2 and graphic

 

%LEN (Get or Set Length)

Return the number of natural characters

 

%CHARCOUNT (Return the Number of Characters)

Return the rightmost characters of a string

 

%RIGHT (Get Rightmost Characters)

Work with a null-terminated string

 

%STR (Get or Store Null-Terminated String)

The string operations include concatenation, scanning, substringing, translation,
and verification. String operations can only be used on character, graphic,
or UCS-2 fields.

The CAT operation concatenates two strings to form one.

The CHECK and CHECKR operations verify that each character in factor 2
is among the valid characters in factor 1. CHECK verifies from left to right
and CHECKR from right to left.

The SCAN operation scans the base string in factor 2 for occurrences of
another string specified in factor 1.

The SUBST operation extracts a specified string from a base string in factor
2. The extracted string is placed in the result field.

The XLATE operation translates characters in factor 2 according to the
from and to strings in factor 1.
Note: Figurative constants cannot
be used in the factor 1, factor 2, or result fields. No overlapping in a data
structure is allowed for factor 1 and the result field, or factor 2 and the
result field.

In the string operations, factor 1 and factor 2 may have two parts. If
both parts are specified, they must be separated by a colon. This option applies
to all but the CAT, CHECK, CHECKR, and SUBST operations (where it applies
only to factor 2).

If you specify P as the operation extender for the
CAT, SUBST, or XLATE operations, the result field is padded from the right
with blanks after the operation.

See each operation for a more detailed explanation.

When using string operations on graphic fields, all data in factor 1, factor
2, and the result field must be graphic. When numeric values are specified
for length, start position, and number of blanks for graphic characters, the
values represent double byte characters.

When using string operations on UCS-2 fields, all data in factor 1, factor
2, and the result field must be UCS-2. When numeric values are specified for
length, start position, and number of blanks for UCS-2 characters, the values
represent double byte characters.

String operations for data with different character sizes

By default, when using string operations on the graphic part of mixed-mode character
data, values such as the start position, length and number of blanks represent single bytes.
Preserving data integrity is the user's responsibility.

A similar issue exists for UTF-8 data, UTF-16 data, and mixed SBCS/DBCS ASCII data.
See Character Data Type

You can process string data using the natural size of each character by working in
CHARCOUNT NATURAL mode.
However, the traditional-syntax operation codes listed above are not supported for this mode
of processing strings.

Note:
Some string operands always operate in STDCHARSIZE mode.

%LEN always works with the number of bytes for alphanumeric expressions and the
number of double bytes for UCS-2 and graphic expressions.

The length operand for %STR always refers to the number of bytes.

Right-adjusted assignment of data with different character sizes

For EVALR
and parameter passing with OPTIONS(*RIGHTADJ),
data is assigned right-adjusted.
When data has characters of different sizes, the compiler handles any necessary truncation of
data differently depending on the CHARCOUNT mode.

When the value to be assigned is too large, the compiler truncates the initial data that
fits in the result.

If the result of the assignment is a data type and CCSID that has characters of different
sizes, such as UTF-8, the compiler handles the truncation differently depending on the
CHARCOUNT mode.

With CHARCOUNT NATURAL mode, the compiler ensures that the first character
assigned to the result is complete.

With CHARCOUNT STDCHARSIZE mode, the data that is assigned to the
result may begin with a partial character.

Assignment of data with different character sizes

When data has characters of different sizes, the compiler handles any necessary truncation of
data differently depending on the CHARCOUNT mode.

When the value to be assigned is too large, the compiler truncates the final data that
fits in the result.

If the result of the assignment is a data type and CCSID that has characters of different
sizes, such as UTF-8, the compiler handles the truncation differently depending on the
CHARCOUNT mode.

With CHARCOUNT NATURAL mode, the compiler ensures that the final character
assigned to the result is complete.

With CHARCOUNT STDCHARSIZE mode, the data that is assigned to the
result may end with a partial character.

Concatenation of data with different character sizes

The temporary variable used by the compiler for a concatenation may not be big enough to hold
the entire result of the concatentation expression, if the operands of the concatenation are very
large, or if there are many operands.

When the result of the concatenation is too large, the compiler truncates the final operand that
fits in the temporary result, and then it does not append any further operands into the temporary
result.

The truncation is handled according to
the rules for assignment.

For information on how the compiler determines the type and CCSID of
the temporary result of the concatenation, see Determining the Common Type of Multiple Operands.

Parent topic: Operations