Delete Product Definition (DLTPRDDFN)

Delete Product Definition (DLTPRDDFN)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Delete Product Definition (DLTPRDDFN) command deletes a product definition object.

Restrictions:

- This command is shipped with exclude (*EXCLUDE) public authority. The QPGMR, QSYSOPR, QSRV, and QSRVBAS user profiles are shipped with private authorities to use this command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
PRDDFN | Product definition | Qualified object name | Optional, Positional 1
Qualifier 1: Product definition | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *CURLIB
PRDID | Product ID | Character value | Optional
RLS | Release | Character value, *ONLY | Optional

Top

Product definition (PRDDFN)

Specifies the name of the product definition to be deleted.

Note:

You must specify either this parameter or both PRDID and RLS, but all parameters cannot be specified at the same time.

The possible library values are:

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is used to locate the product definition.

library-name
Specify the name of the library where the product definition is located.

The possible values are:

product-definition-name
Specify the name of the product definition being deleted.

Top

Product ID (PRDID)

Specifies the 7-character identifier of the product for which a definition is being deleted.

Top

Release (RLS)

Specifies the version, release, and modification level of the product definition to be deleted.

The possible values are:

*ONLY
The release level is determined by searching the system for product information for the product specified on the PRDID parameter. This value is not valid if more than one release of the product exists for the same product ID.

version-release-modification
Specifies the version, release, and modification level of the product. The release level can be passed as one of the following two formats:
Specify the release level in VxRyMz format, where Vx is the version number, Ry is the release number, and Mz is the modification level. The variables x and y can be a number from 0 through 9, and the variable z can be a number from 0 through 9 or a letter from A through Z.

Specify the release level in vvrrmm format, where vv are any numeric characters 00 through 35 representing the version of the product, rr are any numeric characters 00 through 35 representing the release of the product, and mm can be 00 through 09 or 0A through 0Z representing the modification of the product.

Top

Examples

DLTPRDDFN PRDDFN(MYLIB/MYPROD)

This command deletes the product definition MYPROD in library MYLIB.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

SMU1302
Product definition not found.

SMU1313
Product definition not deleted.

SMU1316
RLS(*ONLY) not valid.

Top