Identifying a call stack entry

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Commands used to send messages from a CL program > Commands used to send messages from a CL program

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Commands used to send messages from a CL program

Identifying a call stack entry
If a CL procedure is to send a message to an original program model
(OPM) program or another Integrated Language Environment® (ILE)
procedure, you must identify the call stack entry to which the message is
sent.
The message is sent to the call message queue of the identified
call stack entry.
The TOPGMQ parameter of the Send Program
Message (SNDPGMMSG) command is used to identify the call stack entry
to which a message is sent. Identification of a call stack entry consists
of the following two parts:
Specification of a base entry This specification identifies a program
or procedure within the call stack (this is element 2 of TOPGMQ).

Offset specification of a base entry The offset specification (element
1 of TOPGMQ) identifies if you send the message to the base (*SAME) or if
you send the message to the caller of the base (*PRV).

The specification TOPGMQ(*PRV *) identifies the base entry as
being the one in which the procedure using the Send Program Message
(SNDPGMMSG) command is running. The offset is specified as being
one entry previous to that base. This specification identifies the caller
of the procedure which is using the command.
To understand how to identify
the base entry, element 2 of TOPGMQ, you also need to understand the call
stack when an ILE program is running. Two programs are used to illustrate
this. Program CLPGM1 is an OPM CL program and Program CLPGM2 is an ILE program.
Because program CLPGM2 is ILE, it can consist of several procedures, such
as: CLPROC1, CLPROC2, CLPROC3, and CLPROC4. At run time, the following calls
take place:
CLPGM1 is called first.
CLPGM1 calls CLPGM2.
CLPGM2 calls CLPROC1.
CLPROC1 calls CLPROC2.
CLPROC2 calls CLPROC3 or CLPROC4.

The following figure illustrates the considerations about
the structure of the call stack when CLPROC2 calls CLPROC4:There is a one-to-one correspondence between a call stack entry and an
OPM program; for each call of an OPM program, one new entry is added to the
call stack.
An ILE program, as a unit, is not represented on the stack; instead, when
an ILE program is called, one entry is added to the stack for each procedure
that is called in the program. As a result, you send a message to an ILE procedure,
not to an ILE program.

Note: The first procedure to run when an ILE program is called is
the Program Entry Procedure (PEP) for the program. In CL, this procedure (_CL_PEP)
is generated by the system and calls the first procedure you provide. In this
example, the entry for the PEP is between the entry for the OPM program CLPGM1
and the entry for the procedure CLPROC1.
Figure 1. Example
of runtime call stack with an OPM program and an ILE program with multiple
procedures

Using the Send Program Message command as the base
To use the program or procedure that runs the Send Program
Message (SNDPGMMSG) command as the base call stack entry, use the
TOPGMQ parameter.
Identifying the base entry by name
To identify the base call stack entry, provide the name of the
original program model (OPM) program or Integrated Language
Environment (ILE) procedure that runs in that entry.
Using the program boundary as a base (*PGMBDY)
To specify the program boundary as the base call stack entry, use
the *PGMBDY special value.
Using the most recently called procedure as a base (*PGMNAME)
To specify the most recently called procedure as the base call
stack entry, use the *PGMNAME special value.
Using a control boundary as a base (*CTLBDY)
To identify the base call stack entry as the one at the nearest
control boundary, use the special value *CTLBDY.
Considerations for service programs
Integrated
Language Environment (ILE) programs differ from ILE service programs
in many ways.

Parent topic: Commands used to send messages from a CL program

Related concepts
Call message queue