SIZE ERROR Phrases

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Overview > Conditional Expressions > Statement Operations > Common Phrases and Concepts > Common Phrases and Concepts

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Overview > Conditional Expressions > Statement Operations > Common Phrases and Concepts

SIZE ERROR Phrases

SIZE ERROR Phrase - Format

>>-+----+--SIZE ERROR--imperative-statement-1------------------><
   '-ON-'    

A size error condition can occur in three different ways:
When the absolute value of the result of an arithmetic evaluation, after
decimal point alignment, exceeds the largest value that can be contained in
the result field
When division by zero occurs
In an exponential expression, when
Zero is raised to the exponent zero
Zero is raised to a negative exponent
A negative number is raised to a fractional exponent

The size error condition applies only to final results, not to any intermediate
results.
If the resultant identifier is defined with USAGE IS BINARY,
COMP-4, or COMP-5, the largest
value that can be contained in it is the maximum value implied by its associated
decimal PICTURE character-string.
If the ROUNDED phrase is specified, rounding takes place before size error checking.
When a size error occurs, the subsequent action of the program depends
on whether or not the ON SIZE ERROR phrase is specified.
If the ON SIZE ERROR phrase is specified and a size
error condition occurs, the value of the resultant identifier affected by
the size error is not altered—that is, the error results are not placed
in the receiving identifier. Values of other resultant identifiers are not
affected, as long as no size error occurred for them. After completion of
the execution of the arithmetic operation, the imperative statement in the
ON SIZE ERROR phrase is executed. If no explicit transfer of control is executed
upon completion of the imperative statement specified in the ON SIZE ERROR
phrase, control is transferred to the end of the arithmetic statement and
the NOT ON SIZE ERROR phrase, if specified, is ignored.
If the ON SIZE ERROR phrase is not specified and a size error condition
exists after the execution of the arithmetic operations specified by an arithmetic
statement, the value of the affected resultant identifier is undefined. Values
of other resultant identifiers are not affected, as long as no size error
occurred for them. After completion of the arithmetic operations, control
is transferred to the end of the arithmetic statement and the NOT ON SIZE
ERROR phrase, if specified, is ignored.
For ADD CORRESPONDING and SUBTRACT CORRESPONDING statements, if an individual arithmetic
operation causes a size error condition, the ON SIZE ERROR imperative statement
is not executed until all the individual additions or subtractions have been
completed.

Parent topic: Common Phrases and Concepts