Display Authorized Users (DSPAUTUSR)

Display Authorized Users (DSPAUTUSR)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Display Authorized Users (DSPAUTUSR) command displays or prints the names of the authorized system users, in alphabetic order. The following information is provided for each user: the group profile of which the user is a member, the most recent password change date, whether the user profile has a password, the text of the user profile, whether the user has a password for password levels 0 or 1, whether the user has a password for password levels 2 or 3, whether the user has a password for password level 4, and the local password management value.

Note: While this command is searching for user profile information to display, another job cannot change user profiles (for example, with the Change User Profile (CHGUSRPRF) command).

Restrictions:

- The list of system users contains only the names of the user profiles to which the user of this command has at least read (*READ) authority.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
SEQ | Sequence | *USRPRF, *GRPPRF | Optional, Positional 1
OUTPUT | Output | *, *PRINT | Optional, Positional 2

Top

Sequence (SEQ)

Specifies whether the list of system users is in alphabetic sequence by user profile name or by group profile name.

*USRPRF
The list is in alphabetic sequence by user profile name.

*GRPPRF
The list is in alphabetic sequence by group profile name. The members of each group are listed in alphabetical order by user profile name.

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether the output from the command is displayed at the requesting work station or printed with the job's spooled output.

*
The output is displayed (if requested by an interactive job) or printed with the job's spooled output (if requested by a batch job).

*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Displaying Authorized Users and Group Profile Names

DSPAUTUSR

This command shows the list of authorized users and their group profile names. The list is in alphabetic sequence by user profile name. OUTPUT(*) is also assumed; the list is shown on the display or printed depending on whether the command was submitted at a work station or as part of the batch input stream.

Example 2: Printing Output

DSPAUTUSR SEQ(*GRPPRF) OUTPUT(*PRINT)

This command causes authorized system user profile names and their group profile names to be printed. The output is printed in alphabetic sequence by group profile name.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF2225
Not able to allocate internal system object.

CPF4ABC
Internal error detected reason code &1.

Top