Length for printer files (positions 30 through 34)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Define a printer file > Positional entries for printer files (positions 1 through 44)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Define a printer file > Positional entries for printer files (positions 1 through 44)

Length for printer files (positions 30 through 34)

You must specify the field length in these positions
for each named field (unless you copy the field length from a referenced field).

Your entry represents the number of bytes of data to be passed
from your program when an output operation is done for this field. (If the
field is to be edited, the associated edit code or edit word is used to determine
the printed length of the field.) The printer file example in Defining a printer file shows
how to code the field length.

The maximum length of a zoned decimal field is 63. Data description specifications
allow a maximum field length of 32 767 characters. If the field length causes
the field to extend beyond the page size, a warning diagnostic appears. The
maximum length of a single precision floating-point field is 9 digits; the
maximum length of a double precision floating-point field is 17 digits.

If you use a referenced field, override the referenced length
by specifying a new value or by specifying the increase or decrease in length.
To increase the length, specify +n, where n is the increase.
To decrease the length, specify -n, where n is the decrease.
For example, an entry of +4 indicates that the field is to be 4 digits longer
than the referenced field. The field length can be overridden without overriding
the decimals.

If you specify length, it must be right-aligned; leading
zeros are optional.

The following example shows correct and incorrect field-length specifications.
FIELD1 shows the field length specified incorrectly. FIELD2 and FIELD3 show
the field length specified correctly.

|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5
00010A FIELD1 7
A
00020A FIELD2 7
A
00030A FIELD3 R +7
For floating-point fields, 7 positions will be added to the length you
specify in positions 30 through 34. The 7 extra positions are for the significand
sign, the decimal point or comma, the exponent character, the exponent sign,
and the exponent.

In some cases, if you specify a value for length, some keywords specified
with the field in the database file are not included in the printer file.