ALTSEQ (Alternative Collating Sequence) keyword for physical and logical
files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Keyword entries for physical and logical files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Keyword entries for physical and logical files (positions 45 through 80)

ALTSEQ (Alternative Collating Sequence) keyword for physical and logical
files

You can use this file-level keyword to direct
the operating system to use an alternative collating sequence
table when the system sequences the records of a file member for retrieval,
if you specified a key for this file.

The format of the keyword is: ALTSEQ([library-name/]table-name)
The
name of the alternative collating sequence table is a required parameter value.
The library-name is optional. If you do not specify the library-name, the IBM® i operating system uses the
library list (*LIBL) at file creation time.
The ALTSEQ keyword is not
valid under the following conditions:
When you specify FILETYPE(*SRC) on the Create Physical File (CRTPF) or
Create Logical File (CRTLF) command.

When key fields have a data type of packed decimal, binary, or floating-point.

When key fields are specified with ABSVAL or SIGNED. For those fields,
NOALTSEQ (a key field-level keyword) is assumed and does not need to be specified.
You can specify NOALTSEQ for any field in a composite key that does not require
the alternative sequence.

When you specify a value other than *SRC on the SRTSEQ parameter on the
Create Physical File (CRTPF) or Create Logical File (CRTLF) command.

The ALTSEQ keyword cannot be specified with the REFACCPTH keyword.
You
must have use authority to the alternative collating sequence table. The alternative
collating sequence table is created using the Create Table (CRTTBL) command.
ALTSEQ
causes zoned key fields to default to unsigned sequence. You can override
the default by specifying the SIGNED keyword for individual key fields.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the ALTSEQ keyword for a logical file.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A ALTSEQ(TABLELIB/TABLE1)
00020A R RECORD1 PFILE (PF1)
00030A :
00040A :
00050A :
00060A NAME 20
00070A :
00080A :
00090A K NAME
ARecords with format RECORD1 are sequenced by key NAME
according to the alternative collating sequence table (TABLE1 in library TABLELIB).