Start Performance Graphics (STRPFRG)

Start Performance Graphics (STRPFRG)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run:

- Interactive job (*INTERACT)

- Interactive program (*IPGM)

- Using QCMDEXEC, QCAEXEC, or QCAPCMD API (*EXEC)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Start Performance Graphics (STRPFRG) command calls up the performance graphics menu giving you access to all available performance graphics. This command is only valid in an interactive environment.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
FMTLIB | Graph formats library | Name, QPFRDATA | Optional, Positional 1
PFRLIB | Performance data library | Name, QPFRDATA | Optional, Positional 2
JOB | Job name | Name, *CMD, *MBR | Optional
JOBD | Job description | Single values: *NONE
Other values: Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Job description | Name, QPFRJOBD
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB

Top

Graph formats library (FMTLIB)

Specifies the library in which the graph formats and graph packages are kept. The graph formats and graph packages are used to create performance and historical data graphs.

QPFRDATA
The IBM-supplied performance data library, QPFRDATA, is where the graph formats and graph packages are located.

library-name
Specify the name of the library where the graph formats and graph packages are located.

Top

Performance data library (PFRLIB)

Specifies the library in which the database files are kept. The database files contain the performance and historical information used on the graphs.

QPFRDATA
The IBM-supplied performance data library, QPFRDATA, is where the database files are located.

library-name
Specify the name of the library where the database files are located.

Top

Job name (JOB)

Specifies the job name to be used for any display graph options selected that result in the submission of jobs for batch processing.

If *NONE is specified on the Job description prompt (JOBD parameter), this parameter is ignored and job processing is performed interactively.

The possible job-name values are:

*CMD
The command name that corresponds to the menu option selected is used to name the job. All jobs created by the same option will have the same name.

*MBR
The name of the performance data member specified on the Member prompt (MBR parameter) of the corresponding command is used.

job-name
Specify the name to be used for display graph batch jobs.

Top

Job description (JOBD)

Specifies the job description used to submit jobs for batch processing.

*LIBL
All libraries in the job's library list are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is used to locate the job description. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, QGPL is used.

library-name
Specify the name of the library where the job description is located.

QPFRJOBD
The IBM-supplied performance tools job description is used.

job-description-name
Specify the name of an alternate job description.

*NONE
A batch job is not submitted; instead, processing continues interactively while the user waits. The user's work station cannot be used during this time. This is something to consider for especially long jobs.

Top

Examples

STRPFRG

This command displays the menu interface for Performance Tools graphics. Library QPFRDATA is used for storing and retrieving graph formats, graph packages, and performance data for this session. Any requests that are submitted to run in batch use job description QPFRJOBD found in the library list.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

PFR7023
Interval data cannot be displayed for IDLC lines.

PFR9026
&1 cannot be changed or deleted.

PFR9027
Option chosen for graph format &1 not valid.

PFR9028
Option chosen for graph package &1 not valid.

PFR9032
Too many formats selected.

PFR9033
Too many items selected to be deleted.

PFR9039
Historical data cannot be created for member &2.

PFR9040
Specify *AUTO for range with *TIME for variable.

PFR9044
Graph format selected for historical graph not valid.

PFR9045
*OUTFILE not valid for graph package.

PFR9095
&2 cannot be changed or deleted.

Top