Unicode considerations for database files: Keyword considerations (positions
45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Unicode considerations for database files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Unicode considerations for database files

Unicode considerations for database files: Keyword considerations (positions
45 through 80)

This information discusses how Unicode
data is used with some DDS keywords.

The CCSID keyword is used to enable an A-type or G-type field
to contain Unicode data.
The CCSID parameter must have a CCSID using
a Unicode encoding scheme. This keyword is enabled for both physical and logical
files.
For logical files, the following characteristics must be true
before the CCSID keyword is allowed on a logical file field.
If the specified value on the logical file CCSID keyword uses Unicode
encoding schemes, the field data type must be A for UTF-8 or G for UCS-2/UTF-16.
Also, the corresponding physical file field must be of types A, G, or O. If
the CCSID keyword is specified on the physical file field, it must contain
a value other than 65 535.

If the specified value on the logical file CCSID keyword does not use
Unicode encoding schemes, the field data type must be A, O, or G. Also, the
corresponding physical file field must be a Unicode field. The CCSID keyword
specified on the logical file field must contain a value other than 65 535.

The DFT keyword can contain SBCS, bracketed-DBCS, or bracketed-DBCS-graphic
character strings when specified on a Unicode-capable field.
You can
use the COMP keyword only to compare data in another Unicode-capable field.
Two equal length UTF-8 data strings can be compared to each other using their
hex values regardless of character boundaries.
You can specify a character
literal on a select or omit field that is tagged with a Unicode CCSID on the
COMP, RANGE, and VALUES keywords. The maximum length of the literal is equal
to the number of Unicode code units that is defined in positions 30 to 34
of the DDS specification.
The VARLEN keyword can be used on Unicode
fields.
Logical files can have UTF-8 and UTF-16 data keys.

Concatenation of Unicode fieldsUnicode fields can
be used in the CONCAT keyword. The following rules apply:

The parameters of the CONCAT keyword can be UCS-2 graphic fields, UTF-16
fields, or a mix of each type. No other field types can be concatenated with
UCS-2 or UTF-16 fields.
The concatenation result is UTF-16 if one of the parameters is UTF-16.

Otherwise, the result is UCS-2.

A UTF-8 field can be concatenated only with other UTF-8 fields. No other
field type is allowed to be concatenated with a UTF-8 field. The concatenation
result is UTF-8.

The resulting field must be an input-only field; use I in position
38 of the DDS source statement.

Join logical file supportA UTF-8 field can be joined
to another UTF-8 field in a join logical file. UTF-16 fields can be joined.
To join a UTF-8 or UTF-16 field to a CHAR field, for example, the UTF-8, UTF-16,
or CHAR field must be redefined in the logical file to the same type field.

Select/Omit fields in logical filesUTF-8 and UTF-16
fields are allowed as select and omit field specifications.