Parameters in keyword and positional form

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > CL parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters

Parameters in keyword and positional form
You can specify parameters in CL using keyword form, positional
form, or in a combination of the two.
Parameters in keyword formA parameter in keyword
form consists of a keyword followed immediately by a value (or a list
of values separated by blank spaces) enclosed in parentheses. You cannot use
blanks between the keyword and the left parenthesis preceding the parameter
value. You can place blanks between the parentheses and the parameter value.
For example, LIB(MYLIB) is a keyword parameter specifying that MYLIB is the
name of the library that is used in some way, depending upon the command in
which this LIB parameter is used.
When command parameters are all specified
in keyword form, they can be placed in any order. For example, the following
two commands are the same:
CRTLIB LIB(MYLIB) TYPE(*TEST)
CRTLIB TYPE(*TEST) LIB(MYLIB)

Parameters in positional formA parameter in positional
form does not have its keyword coded; it contains only the value (or values,
if it is a list) whose function is determined by its position in the parameter
set for that command. The parameter values are separated from each other and
from the command name by one or more blank spaces. Because there is only one
positional sequence in which parameters can be coded, the positional form
of the previous CRTLIB (Create Library) command first example is:
CRTLIB MYLIB *TEST
If you do not want to enter a value for one of the parameters,
the predefined value *N (null) can be entered in that parameter's position.
The system recognizes *N as an omitted parameter, and either assigns a default
value or leaves it null. In the previous CRTLIB command second example, if
you coded *N instead of *TEST for the TYPE parameter, the default value *PROD
is used when the command is run, and a production library named MYLIB is created.
The description of the CRTLIB command contains the explanation for each parameter.
Notes: Parameters cannot be coded in positional form beyond the positional coding
limit. If you attempt to code parameters in positional form beyond that point,
the system returns an error message.
Using positional form in your CL program source may save time when writing
the program, but will be more difficult for you or someone else to maintain.
Commands written using keyword form are generally easier to understand and
enhance.

Combining keyword and positional formsA
CL command can also have its parameters coded in a combination of keyword
and positional forms. The following examples show three ways to code the Declare
CL Variable (DCL) command.
Keyword form:
DCL VAR(&QTY) TYPE(*DEC) LEN(5) VALUE(0)
Positional form:
DCL &QTY *DEC 5 0
Positional and keyword forms together:
DCL &QTY *DEC VALUE(0)
In the last example, because the optional LEN parameter was
not coded, the VALUE parameter must be coded in keyword form.
Note: You
cannot specify parameters in position form after a parameter specified in
keyword form.

Parent topic: CL parameters

Related concepts
CL command coding rules

Related reference
CL command parameters