ILE C/C++ Programmer's Guide

IBM i programming resources > ILE C/C++ > Programmer's Guide > Part 3. Debugging Programs > Chapter 8. The ILE Source Debugger

IBM i programming resources > ILE C/C++ > Programmer's Guide > Part 3. Debugging Programs > Chapter 8. The ILE Source Debugger

ILE C/C++ Programmer's Guide
Debug Commands

Many debug commands are available for use with the ILE source
debugger.
For example, if you enter break 10 on the debug command
line (and line 10 is a debuggable statement), the debugger adds an
unconditional breakpoint to line 10 of your source.
Notes:
If line 10 is a blank line or a comment statement, the debugger will give
an error.
If line 10 is not a debuggable statement, such as a typedef statement, it
will set the break point to the very next debuggable statement.
Pressing the F6 key (while the cursor is on a debuggable command line)
sets or clears a break point.

Debug data is created when you compile a module with one of the
following debug options:

*STMT
*SOURCE
*LIST
*ALL

The debug commands and their parameters are entered on the Debug command
line shown at the bottom of the Display Module Source display or the Evaluate
Expression display. They can be entered in uppercase, lowercase, or
mixed case.
The online information describes the debug commands, and shows their
allowed abbreviations.
The debug commands are as follows:

ATTR
Displays the attributes of variables. The attributes are the size
and type of the variable as recorded in the Debug Symbol table.
BREAK
Permits you to enter either an unconditional or conditional job breakpoint
at a position in the program being tested. To enter a conditional job
breakpoint, enter BREAK line-number WHEN expression.
CLEAR
Removes conditional and unconditional breakpoints; removes one or all
active watch conditions.
DISPLAY
Displays the names and definitions assigned by using the Equate
command. It also allows you to display a different source module than
the one that is currently shown on the Display Module Source display.
The module object must exist in the current program object.
EQUATE
Assigns an expression, variable, or debug command to a name for shorthand
use.
EVAL
Displays or changes the value of a variable; displays the value of
expressions, records, structures, or arrays.
QUAL
Defines the scope of variables that appear in subsequent EVAL or WATCH
commands.
SET
Changes debug options, such as the ability to update production
files; specifies whether find operations are to be case sensitive;
enables OPM source debug support.
STEP
Runs one or more statements of the procedure that is being
debugged.
TBREAK
Permits you to enter either an unconditional or conditional breakpoint in
the current thread in a position, in the program being tested.
THREAD
Allows you to either open the Work with Debugged Threads display or change
the current thread.
WATCH
Requests a breakpoint when the contents of a specified storage location is
changed from its current value.
FIND

Searches in the module that is currently displayed for a specified line number
or string of text. The text search can be specified in a forward or
backward direction from the position of the cursor on the displayed view
text. If the cursor is not on the view text, the search starts at the
first position of the top line of text on the current screen. When the
string is successfully found, the cursor will be positioned on the first
character of the found string.
The last Find command that is entered can be repeated by using the F16
Repeat Find key.
UP
Moves the displayed window of source towards the beginning of the view by
the number of lines entered.
DOWN
Moves the displayed window of source towards the end of the view by the
number of lines entered.
LEFT

Moves the displayed window of source to the left by the number of characters
that are entered.
RIGHT
Moves the displayed window of source to the right by the number of
characters that are entered.
TOP

Positions the view to show the first line.
BOTTOM
Positions the view to show the last line.
NEXT
Positions the view to the next breakpoint in the source that is currently
displayed.
PREVIOUS
Positions the view to the previous breakpoint in the source that is
currently displayed.
HELP
Shows the online help information for the available source debugger
commands.

[ Top of Page | Previous Page | Next Page | Table of Contents ]

(C) Copyright IBM Corporation 1992, 2005. All Rights Reserved.