Starting debug mode

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging original program model programs > Debugging original program model programs

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging original program model programs

Starting debug mode
Debug mode is a special environment in
which the testing functions can be used in addition to the normal system functions.
To begin testing, your program must be put in debug mode. Testing
functions cannot be used outside debug mode. To start debug mode, you must
use the Start Debug (STRDBG) command. In addition to placing
your program in debug mode, the STRDBG command lets you specify certain testing
information such as the programs that are being debugged. Your program remains
in debug mode until an End Debug (ENDDBG) or Remove
Program (RMVPGM) command is encountered or your current routing
step ends.
Note: If the System Debug Manager function in System i® Navigator has been used to select Debug
to check the system, issuing the Start Debug (STRDBG))
command causes the graphical interface to be presented. In this case, whenever
one of the users specified in the user list issues the Start Debug
(STRDBG) command, they see the System
i Navigator System
Debug Manager rather than the Command Entry display. If the End
Debug (ENDDBG) command is entered and Debug in the System Debug
Manager is not currently selected, issuing the Start Debug (STRDBG) command,
again, starts the system debugger using the Command Entry display.
The
following Start Debug (STRDBG) command places the job in
debug mode and adds program CUS310 as the program to be debugged.
STRDBG PGM(CUS310)
You can use the Integrated Language Environment® (ILE) source debugger to debug original program model (OPM)
programs. To create OPM programs that contain source debug data, specify the
OPTION(*SRCDBG) parameter or the OPTION(*LSTDBG) parameter on the Create
CL Program (CRTCLPGM) command. The source debug data is actually
part of the program object.
To add OPM programs that get created containing
source debug data to the ILE source debugger, use the Program (PGM) and OPM
Source Level Debug (OPMSRC) parameters on the STRDBG command. To start a debug
session with an OPM program created with source debug data, type:
STRDBG PGM(*LIBL/MYOPMPGM) OPMSRC(*YES) DSPMODSRC(*YES)

Adding programs to debug mode
Before you can debug a program, you must put it in debug mode.
Preventing updates to database files in production libraries
You can use files in production libraries while you
are in debug mode, and therefore need to prevent the files from being unintentionally
updated.

Parent topic: Debugging original program model programs

Related tasks
Debugging ILE programs

Related information
Change Debug (CHGDBG) command
Start Debug (STRDBG) command
End Debug (ENDDBG) command
Remove Program (RMVPGM) command
CL command finder