Delete Cluster (DLTCLU)

Delete Cluster (DLTCLU)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: Yes | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Delete Cluster (DLTCLU) command deletes a cluster on all nodes currently in the cluster's membership list. All cluster resource group objects and device domains associated with the cluster are also deleted. Cluster Resource Services is ended on each node in the cluster membership list, and the cluster is deleted.

If this command is initiated from a cluster node with a status of Active, all active cluster nodes will be removed from the cluster, and the cluster resource group objects associated with the cluster will be deleted. Cluster resource group objects on nodes with a status of Inactive or Failed will not be deleted. If this command is initiated from a cluster node with a status of Failed or Inactive, only that node is removed from the cluster and cluster resource group objects on that node are deleted.

Cluster resource group exit programs will be called with an action code of Delete (or Delete Command if Cluster Resource Services is not active on the node where the command is invoked).

This command may be called when the cluster is in a partitioned state. In this case, the delete operation will only be performed within the partition running the command.

A node which was a member of a device domain has internal information related to auxiliary storage pools such as disk unit numbers or virtual memory addresses. After a cluster is deleted, this internal information persists until the node is IPLed. If the cluster is deleted, the node must be IPLed before the node can become a member of another device domain.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority on all nodes in the cluster to run this command.

- This command cannot be called from a cluster resource group exit program.

- This command must be called from a node defined in the cluster membership list.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
CLUSTER | Cluster | Name | Required, Positional 1

Top

Cluster (CLUSTER)

Specifies the cluster which is being deleted.

This is a required parameter.

name
Specify the name of the cluster that is to be deleted.

Top

Examples for DLTCLU

DLTCLU CLUSTER(MYCLUSTER)

This command deletes the cluster MYCLUSTER. All nodes that were in the membership list of MYCLUSTER are no longer members of any cluster.

Top

Error messages for DLTCLU

*ESCAPE Messages

HAE0014
Cluster &1 not deleted.

Top