Rules for Condition-Name Values

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—Data Description Entry > VALUE Clause > VALUE Clause - Format 2 - Condition-Name Value > VALUE Clause - Format 2 - Condition-Name Value

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—Data Description Entry > VALUE Clause > VALUE Clause - Format 2 - Condition-Name Value

Rules for Condition-Name Values
The VALUE clause is required in a condition-name entry, and must
be the only clause in the entry. Each condition-name entry is associated
with a preceding conditional variable. Thus, every level-88 entry
must always be preceded either by the entry for the conditional variable,
or by another level-88 entry when several condition-names apply to
one conditional variable. Each such level-88 entry implicitly has
the PICTURE characteristics of the conditional variable.
The condition-name entries associated with a particular conditional
variable must immediately follow the conditional variable entry.
The conditional variable can be any data description entry except:
A level-66 item (RENAMES clause)
A data item whose USAGE IS INDEX
An item whose USAGE IS POINTER or PROCEDURE-POINTER.

A condition-name can be associated with a group item data description
entry. In this case: The condition-name value must be specified as a nonnumeric literal
or figurative constant.
The size of the condition-name value must not exceed the sum of
the sizes of all the elementary items within the group.
No element within the group may contain a JUSTIFIED or SYNCHRONIZED
clause.
No USAGE other than DISPLAY may be specified within the group.

Condition-names can be specified both at the group level and at
subordinate levels within the group.
The relation test implied by the definition of a condition-name
at the group level is performed in accordance with the rules for comparison
of nonnumeric operands, regardless of the nature of elementary items
within the group.

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension The VALUE clause is allowed for internal floating-point data items.
The VALUE clause is allowed for DBCS items. Relation tests for
DBCS data items are performed according to the rules for comparison
of DBCS items.
The VALUE clause is allowed for national items. Relation
tests for national data items are performed according to the rules
for comparison of national items.
A condition-name can be associated
with a date, time, or timestamp item. In this case: The condition-name value must be specified as a non-numeric literal
Each condition-name implicitly has the FORMAT characteristics
of the conditional variable. Thus, any relation test involving this
condition-name is performed in accordance with the rules for comparing
items of class date-time.
A THROUGH phrase can be specified when a conditional variable
is of class date-time. In this case, the time or date of literal-1
must be less than literal-2.

End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension A space, a separator comma, or a separator semicolon, must separate successive operands.
Each entry must end with a separator period.
The type of literal in a condition-name entry must be consistent
with the data type of its conditional variable.

Parent topic: VALUE Clause - Format 2 - Condition-Name Value