Specifying COMP at the field level

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Keyword entries for physical and logical files (positions 45 through 80) > COMP (Comparison) keyword for physical and logical files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Keyword entries for physical and logical files (positions 45 through 80) > COMP (Comparison) keyword for physical and logical files

Specifying COMP at the field level

At the field level, the COMP keyword does
not affect the physical or logical file you are describing.

However, when you describe an input-capable field in a display file, you
can refer to the field you are describing by specifying R in position 29 and
the REF or REFFLD keyword. During display file creation, the operating system
copies the COMP keyword and other field attributes from the field in the logical
file into the field in the display file. You can override the COMP keyword
(as well as all other validity checking keywords and the CHKMSGID keyword)
by specifying any validity checking keyword for the field in the display file.

You cannot specify a field name as a parameter value for a field-level
COMP keyword.

You cannot specify *NULL as a parameter value for a field level COMP keyword.

You cannot specify the COMP keyword on a floating-point field (F in position
35) or a hexadecimal field (H in position 35). Do not specify the COMP keyword
on a date, time, or timestamp field (L, T, or Z in position 35).

The rules for specifying this keyword in a physical or logical file are
the same as the rules for a display file.

Defining a numeric field for physical and
logical filesWhen a workstation user types in data, the operating
system aligns the characters typed in according to the number of decimal positions
in the field. Leading and trailing blanks are filled with zeros when the field
is passed to your program. If you do not type a decimal character, the operating
system places a decimal character to the right of the farthest right character
typed. For example, for a numeric field with a length of 5 (specified in position
34) and 2 decimal positions (specified in position 37), 1.2 is interpreted
as 001.20, and 100 is interpreted as 100.00.