Considerations for using a library list

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Libraries > Library lists > Library lists

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Libraries > Library lists

Considerations for using a library list
When you set up a library list and use it, consider
this information.
The libraries in a library list must exist on the system. The system
values QSYSLIBL and QUSRLIBL are accessed when the i5/OS® operating
system is started. If a library in either of these values does not exist on
the system, a message is sent to the system operator's message queue (QSYSOPR),
the library is ignored, and the i5/OS operating
system is started without the library. After i5/OS operating
system is started, no libraries in the library list of any active job can
be deleted. You cannot delete a library in your job's library list. For another
job, you cannot delete a library in the library list if the QLIBLCKLVL system
value is set to lock libraries in the library search list. If any library
in the library list specified in the job description or in a Batch
Job (BCHJOB) or Submit Job (SBMJOB) command does
not exist or is not available, the job is not started.
The libraries in a library list must be authorized to all users who need
to use them. To initialize a library list (for example, in a SBMJOB, Job
(JOB), or Create Job Description (CRTJOBD) command),
a user must have object operational authority for the libraries or the job
is not started. A user must also have *USE authority to libraries added to
the library list using the Add Library List Entry (ADDLIBLE) or Change
Library List (CHGLIBL) command.
When a program running under an adopted user profile adds a library to
the library list that the current user is not authorized to and does not remove
the library from the library list before ending the program, the user keeps
(*USE authority) access to the library after the program exits. This only
occurs when *LIBL is specified to access the objects.
System performance is better when the library list is kept as short as
possible.

Parent topic: Library lists

Related information
CL command finder
Submit Job (SBMJOB) command
Batch Job (BCHJOB) command
Add Library List Entry (ADDLIBLE) command
Change Library List (CHGLIBL) command