READ Statement - Format 3 - Random Retrieval

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > READ Statement > READ Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > READ Statement

READ Statement - Format 3 - Random Retrieval

READ Statement - Format 3 - Random Retrieval

>>-READ--file-name--+--------+--+--------------------+---------->
    '-RECORD-' '-INTO--identifier-1-'   

>--+-----------------------+--+--------------------------+------>
   | (1) | '-KEY--+----+--data-name-1-'   
   '-+------+--NO LOCK-----' '-IS-'    
    '-WITH-'    

>--+--------------------------------------+--------------------->
   | (1) |   
   '-FORMAT------+----+--+-identifier-2-+-'   
    '-IS-' '-literal-1----'    

>--+----------------------------------------+------------------->
   | (1) |   
   '-NULL-KEY-MAP------+----+--identifier-5-'   
    '-IS-'    

>--+------------------------------------+----------------------->
   | (1) |   
   '-NULL-MAP------+----+--identifier-6-'   
    '-IS-'    

>--+------------------------------------------+----------------->
   '-INVALID--+-----+--imperative-statement-1-'   
    '-KEY-'    

>--+----------------------------------------------+------------->
   '-NOT INVALID--+-----+--imperative-statement-2-'   
    '-KEY-'    

>--+----------+------------------------------------------------><
   '-END-READ-'   

Notes:IBM® Extensionfile-name
File-name must be defined in a Data Division FD entry, and must
not name a sort or merge file.
RECORD
The next record in the sequence of records.
KEY IS data-name-1
This phrase is specified only for indexed files. Data-name-1
can be qualified; it cannot be subscripted. Data-name-1 must identify
a record key associated with file-name. IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Data-name-1
can be defined as a DBCS data-item. When the RECORD KEY clause specifies
a DBCS data-item, a KEY specified on the READ statement must be a
DBCS data-item. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension
INTO Phrase
The INTO identifier phrase makes a READ statement equivalent to: READ file-name RECORD
MOVE record-name TO identifier

After successful processing of the READ statement, the current
record becomes available both in the record-name and identifier.
When
the INTO identifier phrase is specified, the current record is moved
from the input area to the identifier area according to the rules
for the MOVE statement without the CORRESPONDING phrase. Any subscripting,
indexing, or reference modification associated with the identifier
is evaluated after the record has been read and immediately before
it is transferred to the identifier. (See also INTO/FROM Identifier Phrase.)
The INTO phrase may be
specified in a READ statement if: Only one record description is subordinate to the file description
entry, or,
All record-names associated with file-name, and the data item
referenced by identifier-1, describe a group item or an elementary
alphanumeric item.

When using the INTO identifier phrase with variable length
records, the amount of data moved to the receiver is equal to the
length of the variable length record being read.

identifier-1
Identifier-1 is the receiving field. The current record is moved
from the record area to that specified by identifier-1 according to
the rules of the MOVE statement without the CORRESPONDING phrase.
The following usage notes apply: The size of the current record depends on the rules specified
in the RECORD clause
If the file description entry contains a RECORD IS VARYING clause,
the move is a group move
The implied MOVE statement occurs only if the execution of the
READ statement is successful
Subscripting or reference modification associated with identifier-1
applies after reading the record and immediately before it is moved
to the data item
The record is available in both the record area and the data item
referenced by identifier-1
The INTO phrase is allowed in a READ statement only if Only one record description is subordinate to the file description
entry, or
All record names associated with file-name-1, and the item referenced
by identifier-1, describe a group item or an elementary alphanumeric
item.

The record areas associated with file-name-1 and identifier-1
must not be the same storage area

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Identifier-1 can be a floating-point data item.
Identifier-1 can be a DBCS data-item.
Identifier-1 can
be a date-time data-item.

End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension NO LOCK Phrase
The NO LOCK phrase prevents the READ operation from obtaining
record locks on files that you open in I-O (update) mode. In addition,
a READ operation bearing the NO LOCK phrase will be successful even
if the record that is to be made available has been locked by another
job. A READ statement bearing this phrase releases records that have
been locked by a previous READ operation. If the DUPLICATES phrase
is specified for the file, a record that is read by a statement with
the NO LOCK phrase cannot be processed by a DELETE or REWRITE statement.
If
you use the NO LOCK phrase for a file that is not open in I-O mode,
you will receive an error message at compilation time.
For
information about file and record locking, see the IBM Rational® Development Studio for i: ILE COBOL
Programmer's Guide.

FORMAT Phrase
The FORMAT phrase applies only when the READ statement is performed
against an indexed file for which the ASSIGN specified DATABASE as
the file device type. The value specified in the FORMAT phrase
contains the name of the record format to use for this I-O operation.
The system uses this to specify or select which record format to
operate on.
Identifier-2, if specified, must be an alphanumeric
data item of 10 characters or less.
Literal-1, if specified,
must be an uppercase character-string of 10 characters or less.
If
the FORMAT phrase is not specified, the first format defined is used
when accessing indexed files in random access mode.
A value
of all blanks is treated as though the FORMAT phrase were not specified.
If the value is not valid for the file, a FILE STATUS of 9K is returned
and a USE procedure is invoked, if applicable for the file.
When
the file is read in sequential
access mode, the next record in the keyed sequence access
path that has the requested format is made available. If omitted,
the next record in the keyed sequence access path is made available.
When
the file is read in random access
mode, the key as defined for the specified format is used
to get a record of that format. If a record of that format is not
found, an INVALID KEY condition is raised. This occurs even when
there are records that have the defined key, but that have a different
record format.
If the format is omitted, the common key for
the file is used to get the first record of any format that has that
common key value. The common key for a file consists of the key fields
common to all formats of a file for records residing on the database.
The common key for a file is the leftmost key fields that are common
across all record formats in the file. The common key is built from
the data in the record description area using the first record format
defined in the program for the file.
When the file is read
in dynamic access mode,
the next record made available is determined as follows: Record
FORMAT
Phrase

Specified
Omitted

NEXT
The next record in the keyed sequence
access path having the specified format is made available.
The next record in the keyed sequence
access path is made available regardless of its format.

PRIOR
The record in the keyed sequence
access path preceding the record identified by the file position indicator
having the specified format is made available.
The record in the keyed sequence
access path preceding the record identified by the file position indicator
is made available regardless of its format.

FIRST
The first record in the keyed sequence
access path having the specified format is made available.
The first record in the keyed sequence
access path is made available regardless of its format.

LAST
The last record in the keyed sequence
access path having the specified format is made available.
The last record in the keyed sequence
access path is made available regardless of its format.

None of the above
The key as defined for the specified
format is used to get a record of that format. If a record of that
format is not found, an INVALID KEY condition is raised. This occurs
even when there are records that have the defined key, but that have
a different record format.
The common key for the file is used
to get the first record of any format that has that common key value.
The common key for a file consists of the key fields common to all
formats of a file for records residing on the database. The common
key for a file consists of the leftmost key fields that are common
across all record formats in the file. The common key is built from
the data in the record description area using the first record format
defined in the program for the file.

NULL-KEY-MAP IS Phrase
The NULL-KEY-MAP
IS phrase indicates the value of the identifier, which corresponds
to the null-byte map value supplied by data management for the key
of the record to be processed. The identifier can be subscripted or
reference modified. The phrase can only be specified for an indexed
file for which the ASSIGN clause specified DATABASE as the device
type, and the ALWNULL attribute.
If the file has alternate
keys, identifier-5 is associated with the null key map of the current
key of reference.
For more information about using null-capable
fields, refer to the IBM Rational Development
Studio for i: ILE COBOL Programmer's Guide.

NULL-MAP IS Phrase
The NULL-MAP IS phrase indicates the value of the identifier,
which corresponds to the null-byte map value supplied by data management
for the record to be processed. The identifier can be subscripted
or reference modified. This phrase can be specified for any file
for which the ASSIGN clause specified DATABASE as the device type,
and the ALWNULL attribute.
For more information about using
null-capable fields, refer to the IBM Rational Development
Studio for i: ILE COBOL Programmer's Guide.

End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension AT END Phrase
The AT END phrase applies only when a file is read in sequential
access mode or dynamic access mode. If a next record does not exist
in the file when a sequential read is processed, an AT END condition
occurs (the high order digit of the file status is 1), and READ statement
processing is unsuccessful. The following actions take place: If the FILE STATUS clause is specified, the status key is updated
to indicate an AT END condition.
If the AT END phrase is specified, control is transferred to the
AT END imperative statement. Any EXCEPTION/ERROR procedure for this
file is not run.
If the AT END phrase is not specified, any EXCEPTION/ERROR procedure
for this file is run. Return from that procedure is to the next executable
statement following the end of the READ statement.

When the AT END condition occurs, execution of the READ
statement is unsuccessful. The contents of the associated record area
are undefined and the file position indicator is set to indicate that
no valid next record has been established.
If an AT END condition
does not occur during the execution of a READ statement, the AT END
phrase is ignored, if specified, and the following actions occur: The file position indicator is set and the I-O status associated
with file-name-1 is updated.
If an exception condition which is not an AT END condition exists,
control is transferred according to rules of the USE statement following
the execution of any USE AFTER EXCEPTION procedure applicable to file-name-1.
If no exception condition exists, the record is made available
in the record area and any implicit move resulting from the presence
of an INTO phrase is executed. Control is transferred to the end
of the READ statement or to imperative-statement-2, if specified.
In the latter case, execution continues according to the rules for
each statement specified in imperative-statement-2. If a procedure
branching or conditional statement which causes explicit transfer
of control is executed, control is transferred in accordance with
the rules for that statement; otherwise, upon completion of the execution
of imperative-statement-2, control is transferred to the end of the
READ statement.

Following the unsuccessful execution of a READ statement,
the contents of the associated record area are undefined and the file
position indicator is set to indicate that no valid next record has
been established.
The AT END phrase must be specified if no
explicit or implicit EXCEPTION/ERROR procedure is specified for the
file. Note: A sequential read is any READ statement for a file with
sequential access, or a READ NEXT, READ PRIOR, READ FIRST, or READ
LAST statement for a file with dynamic access.

A READ
FIRST or READ LAST statement will result in an AT END condition if
the file is empty, or if the FORMAT phrase has been used and no records
in the file have the specified format.
When a file is being
read in sequential access mode and the AT END condition is recognized,
a successful CLOSE statement followed by a successful OPEN statement
must be processed for this file before a further READ statement is
attempted.
When a file is being read in dynamic access mode
and the AT END condition is recognized, one of the following must
be processed for the file before a further READ NEXT or READ PRIOR
statement is attempted: A successful CLOSE statement followed by a successful OPEN statement.
A successful START statement.
A successful random access READ statement.
A successful READ FIRST or READ LAST statement.

If a READ statement for a file with sequential access,
or a READ NEXT or READ PRIOR statement for a file with dynamic access,
is attempted after the AT END condition has occurred, and the file
position indicator has not been reset by one of the specified methods,
then a file status of 46 will be returned. Neither the AT END phrase
nor the NOT AT END phrase will be executed.

NOT AT END Phrase
After each successful completion of a READ statement with the
NOT AT END phrase (the high order digit of the file status is 0),
control transfers to the imperative statement associated with the
phrase.
INVALID KEY Phrase
The INVALID KEY phrase applies only when a relative or indexed
file is read in random access mode or dynamic access mode. The
INVALID KEY phrase must be specified for files for which there is
not an appropriate EXCEPTION/ERROR procedure.
For information
about INVALID KEY phrase processing, see INVALID KEY Condition.

NOT INVALID KEY Phrase
The NOT INVALID KEY phrase applies only when a relative or indexed
file is read in random access mode or dynamic access mode. After
the successful completion of a READ statement with the NOT INVALID
KEY phrase, control transfers to the imperative statement associated
with the phrase.

NEXT Phrase
The NEXT phrase applies only for dynamic access mode. When
a relative file is read dynamically and the NEXT phrase is specified,
a sequential read is done. When omitted, a random read is done.
When
an indexed file is read dynamically and the NEXT phrase is specified,
a sequential read is done. If NEXT, FIRST, LAST and PRIOR are all
omitted, a random access read is done.
If a READ NEXT operation
is performed on a block of records, a READ PRIOR operation cannot
occur until the block is empty. If a READ PRIOR operation is performed
first, a READ NEXT operation cannot occur until the block is empty.
If this is attempted, a file status of 9U will result. To recover
from file status 9U, close the file, then open it again.

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension FIRST Phrase
The FIRST phrase applies only when indexed files are accessed
dynamically. If NEXT, FIRST, LAST and PRIOR are all omitted, a random
access read is done.
LAST Phrase
The LAST phrase applies only when indexed files are accessed dynamically.
If NEXT, FIRST, LAST and PRIOR are all omitted, a random access read
is done.
PRIOR Phrase
The PRIOR phrase applies only when indexed files are accessed
dynamically. When specified, a sequential read is done. If NEXT, FIRST,
LAST and PRIOR are all omitted, a random access read is done. If
a READ PRIOR operation is performed on a block of records, a READ
NEXT operation cannot occur until the block is empty. If a READ NEXT
operation is performed first, a READ PRIOR operation cannot occur
until the block is empty. If this is attempted, a file status of 9U
will result. To recover from file status 9U, close the file, then
open it again.

End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension END-READ Phrase
This explicit scope terminator serves to delimit the scope of
the READ statement. END-READ permits a conditional READ statement
to be nested in another conditional statement. END-READ may also be
used with an imperative READ statement. For more information, see Delimited Scope Statements.

Related Information Relative Files
Indexed Files

Parent topic: READ Statement