Serial Search

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > SEARCH Statement > SEARCH Statement > IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > SEARCH Statement

Serial Search
The Format 1 SEARCH statement executes a serial search beginning at the
current index setting. When the search begins, if the value of the index-name
associated with identifier-1 is not greater than the highest possible occurrence
number, the following actions take place:
The condition(s) in the WHEN phrase are evaluated in the order in which
they are written.
If none of the conditions is satisfied, the index-name for identifier-1
is increased to correspond to the next table element, and step 1 is repeated.
If upon evaluation, one of the WHEN conditions is satisfied, the search
is terminated immediately, and the imperative-statement associated with that
condition is executed. The index-name points to the table element that satisfied
the condition. If NEXT SENTENCE is specified, control passes to the statement following the closest
period.
If the end of the table is reached (that is, the incremented index-name
value is greater than the highest possible occurrence number) without the
WHEN condition being satisfied, the search is terminated, as described in
the next paragraph.

If, when the search begins, the value of the index-name associated with
identifier-1 is greater than the highest possible occurrence number, the search
immediately ends, and, if specified, the AT END imperative-statement is executed.
If the AT END phrase is omitted, control passes to the next statement after
the SEARCH statement.

Parent topic: SEARCH Statement

Condition-1

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > SEARCH Statement

Condition-1
Condition-1, may
be any condition described under Conditional Expressions.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Condition-1 can include DBCS relations or DBCS condition-name
conditions. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

Parent topic: SEARCH Statement