ILE C/C++ Runtime Library Functions

IBM i programming resources > ILE C/C++ > Runtime Library functions > Runtime Library Functions > Runtime Considerations > Heap Memory

IBM i programming resources > ILE C/C++ > Runtime Library functions > Runtime Library Functions > Runtime Considerations > Heap Memory

ILE C/C++ Runtime Library Functions

Debug Memory Manager
The debug memory manager is used primarily to find incorrect heap
usage by an application. It is not optimized for performance and might
negatively affect the performance of the application. However, it
is valuable in determination of incorrect heap usage.
Memory management errors are sometimes caused by writing past the
end of an allocated buffer. Symptoms do not arise until much later
when the memory that was overwritten (typically belonging to another
allocation) is referenced and no longer contains the expected data.
The debug memory manager allows detection of memory overwrites,
memory over reads, duplicate frees, and reuse of freed memory. Memory
problems detected by the debug memory manager result in one of two
behaviors:

If the problem is detected at the point that the incorrect usage
occurs, an MCH exception message (typically an MCH0601, MCH3402, or
MCH6801) is generated. In this case, the error message typically stops
the application.
If the problem is not detected until later, after the incorrect
usage has already occurred, a C2M1212 message is generated. In this
case, the message does not typically stop the application.
The debug memory manager detects memory overwrites and memory over
reads in two ways:

First, it uses restricted access memory pages. A memory page with
restricted access is placed before and after each allocation. Each
memory block is aligned on a 16 byte boundary and placed as close
to the end of a page as possible. Since memory protection is only
allowed on a page boundary, this alignment allows the best detection
of memory overwrites and memory over reads. Any read or write from
one of the restricted access memory pages immediately results in an
MCH exception.
Second, it uses padding bytes before and after each allocation.
A few bytes immediately before each allocation are initialized at
allocation time to a preset byte pattern. Any padding bytes following
the allocation required to round the allocation size to a multiple
of 16 bytes are initialized at allocation time to a preset byte pattern.
When the allocation is freed, all the padding bytes are verified to
ensure that they still contain the expected preset byte pattern. If
any of the padding bytes have been modified, the debug memory manager
generates a C2M1212 message with reason code X’80000000’,
indicating this fact.
Allocation
A large amount of extra memory is required for each allocation
request. The extra memory is due to the following:

A memory page before the allocation (single-level store
version only)
A memory page after the allocation
A header on each allocation
Alignment of each block of memory on a 16 byte boundary
The size of the header on each allocation is 16 bytes. Each block
must be aligned on a 16 byte boundary. The total amount of memory
required for an allocation of size n in the
single-level store version is:
size = ROUND((PAGESIZE * 2) + n + 16, PAGESIZE)
For example, an allocation of size 37 with a page size of 4096
bytes requires a size of ROUND(8192 + 37 + 16, 4096), which is equal
to 12,288 bytes.
The total amount of memory required for an allocation of size n in the teraspace version is:

size = ROUND(PAGESIZE + n + 16, PAGESIZE)
For example, an allocation of size 37 with a page size of 4096
bytes requires a size of ROUND(4096 + 37 + 16, 4096), which is equal
to 8,192 bytes.
Deallocation
Memory blocks deallocated with the free operation are
returned to the system. The page protection attributes are set so
that any further read or write access to that memory block generates
an MCH exception.
Reallocation
In all cases, the following processing occurs:

A new block of the requested size is allocated.
The data is moved from the original block to the new block.
The original block is returned with the free operation.
The new block is returned to the caller.
Enabling the debug memory manager
The debug memory manager is not enabled by default, but is enabled
and configured by setting the following environment variables:
QIBM_MALLOC_TYPE=DEBUG
QIBM_MALLOC_DEBUG_OPTIONS=options
To enable the debug memory manager with the default settings, QIBM_MALLOC_TYPE=DEBUG
needs to be specified. To enable the debug memory manager with user-specified
configuration options, set QIBM_MALLOC_DEBUG_OPTIONS=options where options is a blank delimited list of one or more
configuration options.
If the QIBM_MALLOC_TYPE=DEBUG environment variable is specified
and the _C_Quickpool_Init() function is called, the environment
variable settings take precedence over the _C_Quickpool_Init() function
and the _C_Quickpool_Init() function returns a -1
value indicating that an alternate heap manager has been enabled.
Configuration Options
The following configuration options are available:
MALLOC_INIT:N
This option can be used to specify that each byte of allocated
memory is initialized to the given value. The value N represents
an integer in the range of 0 to 255.
This option is not enabled by default.
FREE_INIT:N
This option can be used to specify that each byte of freed memory
is initialized to the given value. The value N represents
an integer in the range of 0 to 255.
This option is not enabled by default.
Any number of options can be specified and they can be specified
in any order. Blanks are the only valid delimiters for separating
configuration options. Each configuration option should only be specified
once. If a configuration option is specified more than one, only the
final instance applies. If a configuration option is specified with
an invalid value, the configuration option is ignored.
Examples

ADDENVVAR ENVVAR(QIBM_MALLOC_DEBUG_OPTIONS) LEVEL(*JOB) REPLACE(*YES) VALUE('')

ADDENVVAR ENVVAR(QIBM_MALLOC_DEBUG_OPTIONS) LEVEL(*JOB) REPLACE(*YES)
VALUE('MALLOC_INIT:255 FREE_INIT:0')
The first example represents the default configuration values.
The second example illustrates all options being specified.
Related Functions
There are no functions available to enable or specify configuration
options for the debug memory manager. Use the environment variable
support to enable or specify configuration options.

Notes:

Use the debug memory manager to debug single applications or small
groups of applications at the same time.
The debug memory manager
is not appropriate for full-time, constant, or system-wide
use. Although it is designed for minimal performance impact upon
the application being debugged, significant negative impact on overall
system throughput can result if it is used on a system-wide
basis. It might cause significant system problems, such as excessive
use of the system auxiliary storage pool (ASP).
The debug memory manager consumes significantly more memory than
the default memory manager. As a result, the debug memory manager
might not be appropriate for use in some debugging situations.
Because
the allocations require two memory pages or more of extra memory per
allocation, applications that issue many small allocation requests
see their memory usage increase dramatically. These programs might
encounter new failures as memory allocation requests are denied due
to a lack of memory. These failures are not necessarily errors in
the application being debugged and they are not errors in the debug
memory manager.
Single-level store versions are limited
to slightly less than 4 GB for the maximum amount of allocated heap
storage. The debug memory manager allocates a minimum of three pages
per allocation, which allows for less than 350,000 outstanding heap
allocations (with a page size of 4096 bytes).
The single-level store version of the debug memory manager
does each allocation in a separate 16 MB segment which can cause the
system to use temporary addresses more rapidly.

Related Information

calloc() — Reserve and Initialize Storage
free() — Release Storage Blocks
malloc() — Reserve Storage Block
realloc() — Change Reserved Storage Block Size
_C_Quickpool_Init() — Initialize
Quick Pool Memory Manager

[ Top of Page | Previous Page | Next Page | Contents |
Index ]