Command processing program

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands > Defining commands

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands

Command processing program
A command processing program (CPP) is a program that processes
a command. This program performs some validity checking and processes the
command so that the requested function is performed.
A command processing program (CPP) can be a CL or high-level
language (HLL) program, or a REXX procedure. Programs written in CL or HLL can also
be called directly with the Call (CALL) command. REXX procedures
can be called directly using the Start REXX Procedure (STRREXPRC) command.
The command processing program does not need to exist when the Create
Command (CRTCMD) command is run. If *LIBL is used as the library
qualifier, the library list is used to find the command processing program
when the created command is run.
Messages issued as a result of running
the command processing program can be sent to the job message queue and automatically
displayed or printed. You can send displays to the requesting display station.

Notes: The parameters defined on the command are passed individually in the order
they were defined (the PARM statement order).
Decimal values are passed to HLL and CL programs as packed decimal values
of the length specified in the PARM statement.
Character, name, and logical values are passed to HLL and CL programs
as a character string of the length defined in the PARM statement.

CL or HLL command processing program
This information describes the command processing program for CL
or HLL.
REXX command processing procedure
This information describes the REXX command processing procedure.

Parent topic: Defining commands

Related information
Create Command (CRTCMD) command
Call Program (CALL) command
Start REXX Procedure (STRREXPRC) command