Work with Migration Status (WRKMIGSTS) command

Work with Migration Status (WRKMIGSTS) command

Last Updated: 2025-11-20

The Work with Migration Status (WRKMIGSTS) CL command provides a menu-driven interface to interact with Migrate While Active. The WRKMIGSTS command must be used when the source or copy node is in restricted state since it is not possible to use the Db2® Mirror GUI during this time.

The WRKMIGSTS command is used to display and to work with the migration process. When you run
this command, the Work with Migration Status menu is shown.

Options are available from the Work with Migration Status menu to start an
automated or manual save on the source node, start an automated or manual restore on the copy node,
start final synchronization, display migration information, and work with the synchronization jobs
for the migration in progress.

As shown in Figure 1, the WRKMIGSTS command brings the user to a
menu where different actions can be initiated. The upper portion of the main menu includes the
migration stage and phase, which indicate the current status of the migration.

Figure 1. WRKMIGSTS main menu

Beyond the start, complete, and cancel actions for various steps in the migration process, the
WRKMIGSTS command also displays other details about the migration. Press F15
to access the Display Migration Information panel. Press
Enter or F15 to cycle through the four displays, which
show the different types of migration information. The QSYS2.MIGRATION_MANAGER_INFO view returns
information similar to some of the information available from these displays.

In Figure 2, we see that Migrate While Active is
PAUSED within the DATA SYNCHRONIZATION stage, and the Migration
Manager is in between synchronization intervals.

Figure 2. WRKMIGSTS - Migration information for Migration Manager

In Figure 3, we see the job most recently used to handle tracked Db2 Mirror replication-eligible objects. Synchronization of additional changes to Db2 Mirror replication-eligible objects will continue when data synchronization is restarted and the next interval begins.

Figure 3. WRKMIGSTS - Migration information for library-based objects that use Db2 Mirror replication

In Figure 4, we see the job most recently used to handle tracked objects that are not eligible for Db2 Mirror replication. Synchronization of additional changes to these objects will continue when the next interval begins.

Figure 4. WRKMIGSTS - Migration information for library-based objects that use
save and restore

In Figure 5, we see the job most recently used to handle tracked
integrated file system (IFS) objects. Synchronization of additional changes to integrated file
system objects will continue when the next interval begins.

Figure 5. WRKMIGSTS - Migration information for integrated file system
objects

If the value for Migration detail info text is too long to be displayed on
any of these panels, place the cursor on that field and press F22 to see the
complete value.

If Migrate While Active has not been configured, many of the fields on the panel will be blank
as shown in Figure 6.

Figure 6. Display Migration Information, not configured

From any of the WRKMIGSTS panels, press F16 to see the final
synchronization status as shown in Figure 7.

Figure 7. Final data synchronization active status and progress

If final data synchronization is in progress, the current step is identified with a > character
on the left. If final data synchronization is not active, information for the previous final data
synchronization is shown. Previous final data synchronization details would only appear if cancel
had been used to exit from the cutover stage.

Figure 8. Final data synchronization previous status

In some cases, such as when migration has not been configured, no steps will be shown.

From any of the WRKMIGSTS panels, press F17 to see the migration jobs as
shown in Figure 9. The first job listed (QMRDBECTLR) is the Migration
Manager job.

Figure 9. Work with Migration Jobs

Press F11 to see the panel view that includes the description of the
job.

Type option 5 (Display) to display more information about any of the
jobs.

In some cases, such as when migration has not been configured, no jobs will be shown.