Generic object names

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > i5/OS objects > i5/OS objects

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > i5/OS objects

Generic object names
Generic object names can be used when referring to multiple
objects with similar names.
A generic object name can refer to more than one object. That
is, a generic name contains one or more characters that are the first
group of characters in the names of several objects. The system then
searches for all the objects that have those characters at the beginning
of their names and are in the libraries named in the library list.
A generic name is identified by an asterisk (*) as the last character
in the name.
A quoted generic name consists of a generic name
enclosed in quotation marks. Unlike quoted names, if there are no
special characters between the quotation marks, the quotation marks
are not removed. For example, the generic name "ABC*" causes
the system to search for all objects whose name begins with a quotation
mark followed by the three letters ABC.
A generic name can also be qualified by a library name. If the
generic name is qualified, the system searches only the specified
library for objects whose names begin with that generic name.
Note: A generic name also can be qualified by one or more directories
if it is a path name. In a path name, letters can be specified before
and after the asterisk (*).
When you specify a generic name, the system performs the required
function on all objects whose names begin with the specified series
of characters. You must have the authority required to perform that
function on every object the generic name identifies. If you do not
have the required authority for an object, the function is not performed
and a diagnostic message is issued for each instance that the attempted
generic function failed. A completion message is issued for each object
the generic function operates on successfully. You must view the online
low-level messages to see the completion messages. After the entire
generic function is completed, a completion message is issued that
states that all objects were operated on successfully. If one or more
objects cannot be successfully operated on, an escape message is issued. If
an override is in effect for a specific device file, the single object
name specified on the override, rather than the generic name, is used
to perform the operation.
You might not be able to use a generic name for delete, move, or
rename commands if the library containing the objects is already locked.
A search for generic object names requires a more restrictive lock
on the library containing the objects than a search for full object
names. The more restrictive lock is necessary to prevent another user
from creating an object with the same name as the generic search string
in the library while the delete, move, or rename command is running.
You can circumvent this problem by using the full name of the objects
instead of a generic name. Or you can end the job or subsystem that
has a lock on the library.
Note: Use the Work with Object Locks (WRKOBJLCK) command
to determine which jobs or subsystems have a lock on the library.
For some commands, a library qualifier can be specified with the
generic name to limit the scope of the operation. For example, a Change
Print File (CHGPRTF) command with FILE(LIB1/PRT*) performs
the operation on printer files that begin with PRT in
library LIB1 only; printer files in other libraries
are not affected.
The limitations associated with the various library qualifiers
are as follows:
library-name: The operation is performed on generic object
names only in the specified library.
*LIBL: The operation is performed on generic object names in the
library list associated with the job that requested the generic operation.
*CURLIB: The operation is performed on generic object names in
the current library.
*ALL: The operation is performed on generic object names in all
libraries for which you are authorized.
*USRLIBL: The operation is performed on generic object names in
the user part of the library list for the job.
*ALLUSR: The operation is performed on all nonsystem libraries
(libraries that do not start with the letter Q), with some exceptions.
Note: A different library name, of the form QUSRVxRxMx, can be created
by the user for each release that IBM supports. VxRxMx is the version,
release, and modification level of the library.

Table 1. Generic object name Name type
Name syntax
Example

Simple generic name
generic-name*
OBJ*

Qualified generic name
library-name/generic-name*
LIB1/OBJ*

Quoted generic name
"generic-name*"
"ABC*"

Parent topic: i5/OS objects

Related concepts
Integrated file system
Generic library names
Object naming rules
Generic names (*GENERIC)