Create Performance Summary (CRTPFRSUM)

Create Performance Summary (CRTPFRSUM)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Create Performance Summary (CRTPFRSUM) command creates additional performance database files containing summary information for an existing collection services performance database file collection.

The existing collection (as created by the CRTPFRDTA command) is processed and the summarized data is placed in these special files. This data facilitates quicker processing of the performance database data by tools such as the Performance Viewer. For more information about the database files, see the Performance topic in the IBM i Information Center at http://www.ibm.com/systems/i/infocenter/.

Performance database files and file members (each collection is a file member) will be created as needed based on the specified collection. If database files already exist and the requested member exists in any of them, the member will be cleared before this additional data is generated.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
COL | Collection | Name, *SELECT | Optional, Positional 1
LIB | Library | Name, QPFRDATA | Optional

Top

Collection (COL)

Specifies the name of the performance database file collection to process.

*SELECT
All collections available in the specified library are listed on the Select Performance Collections display. This option is only valid when running in an interactive job.

name
Specify the name of the collection containing the performance data to summarize.

Top

Library (LIB)

Specifies the library where the performance database files are located.

QPFRDATA
The IBM-supplied performance data library, QPFRDATA, is used to locate the database files.

name
Specify the name of the library where the database files are located.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Generating Data

CRTPFRSUM COL(JAN1) LIB(MYLIB)

In this example, which is based on example 1 from CRTPFRDTA, the collection JAN1 in library MYLIB is processed to generate summary data. Additional database files are created in library MYLIB with a collection member name of JAN1 that contains this summary data.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF0A03
Performance data files are not upward compatible.

CPF0A04
Performance data files are not downward compatible.

CPF0A76
Performance collection &1 not found.

CPF9810
Library &1 not found.

CPF9820
Not authorized to use library &1.

CPF9899
Error occurred during processing of command.

Top