Overriding message files

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Defining message descriptions > Message file searching > Message file searching

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Defining message descriptions > Message file searching

Overriding message files
The creation (Override Message File command), deletion (Delete
Override command), and display (Display Override command) of message file
override operations is similar to other types of override operations. With
these commands, however, only the name of the message file, not the attributes,
is overridden, and the rules for applying the override operations are slightly
different.
To override a message file, use the Override Message
File (OVRMSGF) command. The file overridden is specified in the
MSGF parameter; the file overriding it is specified in the TOMSGF parameter.
For
example, to override QCPFMSG with a user message file named USRMSGF, the following
command can be used:
OVRMSGF MSGF(QCPFMSG) TOMSGF(USRMSGF)
When a predefined message is retrieved or displayed, the overriding
file is searched for a message description. If the message description is
not found in that file, the overridden file is searched.
There are
several basic reasons to override message files:
To provide changed default replies or dump lists. A message file can
be created with message descriptions for messages with changed default replies
or dump lists because those in the original message descriptions are not satisfactory.
You can establish several operating environments, each with different default
replies.
To change severity levels of the messages.
To provide a default program.
To change the text of a message. If the text is blank, it appears to
the user as if no message was sent. For example, you may not want the status
message sent by the Copy File (CPYF) command to appear
to the user.
To provide translation of messages into national languages. Message files
written in English can be overridden by message files written in other languages.
(If all messages are changed, use the library list for the job to change
the order of the message files instead of overriding the message files.)

Another way you can select the message file from which messages are
to be retrieved is by changing the order of the files in the library list
for the job. However, if you use this approach, the search for the message
stops on the first message file found that has the specified name. If the
message is not in that file, the search stops.
For example, assume that
a message file named USRMSG is in library USRLIB1, and another message file
named USRMSG is in library USRLIB2. To use the message file in USRLIB1, USRLIB1
should precede USRLIB2 in the library list.
The system searches the first message
file found with the correct name. If that file does not contain the message,
the search stops. However, if you use the OVRMSGF command, the system searches
the overriding file, and if the message is not there, it searches the overridden
file.

Example: Overriding a message file
This example shows how to change a message used in a job.

Parent topic: Message file searching