Graphic strings

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Data types > Data types

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Data types

Graphic strings
A graphic string is a sequence
of double-byte characters. The length of the string is the number
of its characters. Like character strings, graphic strings can be
empty.
Fixed-length graphic stringsWhen fixed-length
graphic-string distinct types, columns, and variables are defined,
the length attribute is specified and all values have the same length.
For a fixed-length graphic string, the length attribute must be between
1 through 16 383 inclusive. See SQL limits for
more information.
Varying-length graphic stringsThe types of varying-length graphic strings are:
VARGRAPHIC
DBCLOB

A Double-Byte Character Large OBject (DBCLOB) column
is useful for storing large amounts of double-byte character data,
such as documents written using a double-byte character set.
Distinct
types, columns, and variables all have length attributes. When varying-length
graphic-string distinct types, columns, and variables are defined,
the maximum length is specified and this becomes the length attribute.
Actual values may have a smaller length. For a varying-length graphic
string, the length attribute must be between 1 through 16 370 inclusive.
For a DBCLOB string, the length attribute must be between 1 through
1 073 741 823 inclusive. See SQL limits for
more information.
For the restrictions that apply to the use
of long varying-length strings, see Limitations on use of strings.
Graphic-string variablesFixed-length
graphic-string variables can be defined in C, C++, ILE COBOL, and
ILE RPG. (In C and C++, fixed-length graphic-string variables are
limited to a length of 1.) Although fixed-length graphic-string
variables cannot be defined in PL/I, COBOL/400, and RPG/400®, a character-string variable will
be treated like a fixed-length graphic-string variable if it was generated
in the source from a GRAPHIC column in the external definition of
a file.

VARGRAPHIC varying-length graphic-string variables can be defined
in C, C++, ILE COBOL, REXX,
and ILE RPG. In REXX and
ILE RPG, there is a varying-length graphic-string data type.
In C, C++, and ILE COBOL, varying-length graphic strings are represented
as structures.
In C and C++, varying-length graphic-string variables can also
be represented by NUL-terminated graphic strings.
Although varying-length graphic-string variables cannot be defined
in PL/I, COBOL/400,
and RPG/400, a character-string
variable will be treated like a varying-length graphic-string variable
if it was generated in the source from a VARGRAPHIC column in the
external definition of a file.

DBCLOB varying-length character-string variables can be defined
in all host languages except REXX, RPG/400,
and COBOL/400. In ILE RPG, a DBCLOB varying-length character string is declared
using the SQLTYPE keyword.
In all other languages, an SQL TYPE IS DBCLOB clause is used.

Parent topic: Data types