SET RESULT SETS

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

SET RESULT SETS
The SET RESULT SETS statement specifies the
result sets that can be returned from a procedure.
InvocationThis statement can
only be embedded in an application program or SQL procedure. It is
an executable statement that cannot be dynamically prepared. It is
not allowed in a Java™ or REXX procedure.
AuthorizationNone required.
SyntaxSET RESULT SETSWITH RETURNTO CALLERTO CLIENT,ARRAYhost-structure-arrayFORvariableROWSCURSORcursor-nameNONE
Description WITH RETURN
Specifies
that the result table of the cursor is intended to be used as a result
set that will be returned from a procedure. For non-scrollable
cursors, the result set consists of all rows from the current cursor
position to the end of the result table. For scrollable cursors, the
result set consists of all rows of the result table.
TO CALLER
Specifies that the cursor can return a result set to the caller
of the procedure. For example, if the caller is a client application,
the result set is returned to the client application.
TO CLIENT
Specifies that the cursor can return a result set to the client
application. This cursor is invisible to any intermediate nested procedures.
If a function or trigger called the procedure either directly or indirectly,
result sets cannot be returned to the client and the cursor will be
closed after the procedure finishes.

CURSOR cursor-name
Identifies a cursor to be used to
define a result set that can be returned from a procedure. The cursor-name must
identify a declared cursor as explained in Description for the
DECLARE CURSOR statement. When the SET RESULT SETS statement is executed,
the cursor must be in the open state. It cannot be an allocated cursor.
ARRAY host-structure-array
host-structure-array identifies
an array of host structures defined in accordance with the rules for
declaring host structures. The array cannot contain a C NUL-terminated
host variable. The first structure in the array corresponds to
the first row of the result set, the second structure in the array
corresponds to the second row of the result set, and so on. In addition,
the first value in the row corresponds to the first item in the structure,
the second value in the row corresponds to the second item in the
structure, and so on.
LOBs and XML cannot be returned
in an array when using DRDA®.
Only
one array can be specified in a SET RESULT SETS statement, including
any RETURN TO CLIENT array result sets from nested calls to procedures.

FOR variable ROWS
Specifies the number of rows in the
result set. The variable must be a numeric variable with zero
scale, and it must not include an indicator variable. It must not
be a global variable. The number of rows specified must be in the
range of 0 to 32767 and must be less than or equal to the dimension
of the host structure array.
NONE
Specifies
that no result sets will be returned. Cursors left open when the
procedure ends will not be returned.

NotesFor
more information about result sets, see Result sets from procedures and WITH RETURN clause.
External procedures: There are three ways to return
result sets from an external procedure:
If a SET RESULT SETS statement is executed in the procedure, the
SET RESULT SETS statement identifies the result sets. The result sets
are returned in the order specified on the SET RESULT SETS statement.
If a SET RESULT SETS statement is not executed in the procedure,
If no cursors have specified a WITH RETURN clause, each cursor
that the procedure opens and leaves open when it returns identifies
a result set. The result sets are returned in the order in which the
cursors are opened.
If any cursors have specified a WITH RETURN clause, each cursor
that is defined with the WITH RETURN clause that the procedure opens
and leaves open when it returns identifies a result set. The result
sets are returned in the order in which the cursors are opened.

When a result set is returned using an open cursor, the
rows are returned starting with the current cursor position.
The RESULT SETS clause should be specified on the ALTER
PROCEDURE (external), CREATE PROCEDURE (external) statement, or DECLARE
PROCEDURE statement to return result sets from a procedure. The maximum
number of result sets returned cannot be larger than the number specified
on the ALTER PROCEDURE (external), CREATE PROCEDURE (external) statement,
or DECLARE PROCEDURE statement.
SQL procedures: In order to return result sets
from an SQL procedure, the procedure must be created with the RESULT
SETS clause. Each cursor that is defined with the WITH RETURN clause
that the procedure opens and leaves open when it returns identifies
a result set.
If a SET RESULT SETS statement is executed in the procedure, the
SET RESULT SETS statement identifies which of these result sets to
return. The result sets are returned in the order specified on the
SET RESULT SETS statement.
If a SET RESULT SETS statement is not executed in the procedure
the result sets are returned in the order in which the cursors are
opened.

When a result set is returned using an open cursor, the
rows are returned starting with the current cursor position.
The RESULT SETS clause must be specified on the CREATE
PROCEDURE (SQL) statement to return any result sets from an SQL procedure.
The maximum number of result sets returned cannot be larger than the
number specified on the CREATE PROCEDURE statement.
ExampleThe following SET RESULT SETS statement
specifies cursor X as the result set that will be returned when the
procedure is called. For more information and complete examples showing
the use of result sets from ODBC clients, see the IBM® i
Access Family topic collection.
EXEC SQL SET RESULT SETS CURSOR X;

Parent topic: Statements