Return code summary

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Compiling CL source program > Compiling CL source program

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Compiling CL source program

Return code summary
A return code can be returned using the Return code (RTNCDE)
parameter on the Retrieve Job Attributes (RTVJOBA) command
.
The return code is a 5-digit decimal value with no decimal positions (12345.
for example). The decimal value indicates the status of called programs. CL
programs do not set the return code. However, you can retrieve the current
value of the return code as set by another program in a CL program. You can
do this by using the RTNCDE parameter of the Retrieve Job Attributes
(RTVJOBA) command.
The following list summarizes the return codes used by languages supported
on the i5/OS® operating
system:
RPG IV programs The return codes sent by the RPG IV compiler are:

0
When the program is created
2
When the program is not created

The return codes sent by running RPG IV programs are:
0
When a program is started, or by the CALL operation before a program is
called
1
When a program ends with LR set on
2
When a program ends with an error (response of C, D, F, or S to an inquiry
message)
3
When a program ends because of a halt indicator (H1-H9)

RPG IV return codes are tested only after a CALL:
0 or 1 indicate no error
3 gives an RPG IV status code of 231
Any other value gives an RPG IV status code 202 (call ended in error)

The return code cannot be tested directly by the user in the RPG IV
program.

ILE COBOL and OPM COBOL programs The return codes sent by running
COBOL programs are:
0
By each CALL statement before a program is called
2
When a program receives a function check (CPF9999) or the generic I/O
exception handler gets control and there is no applicable USE procedure

COBOL programs cannot retrieve these return codes. For OPM
COBOL, a return code value of 2 sends message LBE9001. For ILE COBOL, a return
code value of 2 sends message CEE9001.

ILE C programs The current value of the integer return code is returned
by the last ILE C return statement in an ILE C program.

Parent topic: Compiling CL source program

Related information
Retrieve Job Attributes (RTVJOBA) command
Reclaim Resources (RCLRSC) command