ALWGPH (Allow Graphics) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

ALWGPH (Allow Graphics) keyword for display files

This file- or record-level keyword allows graphics
and alphanumeric contents to be displayed by the record format
on a 5292 Model 2 Color Display Station at the same time.

The keyword is ignored if it is specified for a file displayed
on any other type of display.
This keyword has no parameters.
When
a record with this keyword in effect is written to a 5292 Model 2 Color Display
Station, the device is placed in graphics display mode, if it was not already
in that mode. This is done whether the keyword is in effect for any other
record also displayed on the device. The device remains in graphics display
mode as long as there is any record displayed with the ALWGPH keyword selected.
Displaying a record that does not have the ALWGPH keyword will not cause graphics
display mode to end.
To turn the graphics display off, you must delete
all records with the ALWGPH keyword in them from the display (or option off
the keyword in those records). When the graphics display is turned off, any
graphics already on the display are not deleted, but are no longer
displayed. Provided that the graphics display is not deleted (through the
use of Graphical Data Display Manager (GDDM) functions), it will be displayed
again the next time a record with ALWGPH is displayed, including one from
a secondary interactive job called from the System Request Menu.
In
the graphics display mode:
The device is automatically placed in reduced line spacing
mode, with less space between lines. This is done regardless of the workstation
user's choice of this mode from the keyboard (in local mode), and it cannot
be overridden by the user.

Any graphics that are already on the display when the DDS record format
is displayed remain on the display as a background to the alphanumeric characters
displayed by the record format.

Option indicators are valid for this keyword.
This keyword
cannot be specified with the SFL or the USRDFN keywords.

Example 1The following example shows how to specify
the ALWGPH keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R RECORD1 ALWGPH
00020A 23 2'Enter account number:'
00030A ACCT 5 B +2
AIn the example, RECORD1 can be displayed with graphics.
The constant Enter account number: and the field ACCT appear on the
display. Any graphics also displayed (through the use of GDDM routines)
appear behind the alphanumerics. In other words, when a graphics line
or pattern crosses the alphanumerics, a portion of the graphics is covered
by the alphanumerics.

Example 2The following example shows how RECORD2
can be displayed with graphics only if option indicator 01 is on.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R RECORD2
00020A 01 ALWGPH
00030A 1 34'Sample Title'
AIn the example, if option indicator 01 is off, any graphics
already displayed are turned off (not deleted) and only the alphanumerics
specified through DDS (such as Sample Title) appear on the display.
On a later output operation, with option indicator 01 on, the graphics reappear
with the alphanumerics.