TRANSLATE

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

TRANSLATE
The TRANSLATE function returns a value in which one or
more characters in expression may have been converted into
other characters.
TRANSLATE(expression,to-string,from-string,pad)
expression
An expression that specifies the string to be converted expression must
be any built-in numeric or string data type. A numeric argument is
cast to a character string before evaluating the function. For more
information about converting numeric to a character string, see VARCHAR.
to-string
A string that specifies the characters to which certain characters
in expression are to be converted. This string is sometimes
called the output translation table. The string must be any
built-in numeric or string constant. A numeric argument is cast to
a character string before evaluating the function. For more information
about converting numeric to a character string, see VARCHAR. A character string argument must
have an actual length that is not greater than 256. If the actual length of the to-string is less than
the actual length of the from-string,
then the to-string is padded to the longer length using either
the pad character if it is specified or a blank if a pad character
is not specified. If the actual length of
the to-string is greater than the actual
length of the from-string, the extra characters in to-string are
ignored without warning.

from-string
A string that specifies the characters that if found in expression are
to be converted. This string is sometimes called the input translation
table. When a character in from-string is found, the character
in expression is converted to the character in to-string that
is in the corresponding position of the character in from-string The
string must be any built-in numeric or string constant. A numeric
argument is cast to a character string before evaluating the function.
For more information about converting numeric to a character string,
see VARCHAR. A character string
argument must have an actual length that is not greater than 256.
If
there are duplicate characters in from-string, the first one
scanning from the left is used and no warning is issued. The default
value for from-string is a string starting with the character
X'00' and ending with the character X'FF' (decimal 255).

pad
A string that specifies the character with which to pad to-string if
its length is less than from-string. The string must be a character
string constant with a length of 1. The default is an SBCS blank.

If the first argument is a Unicode graphic or UTF-8 string,
no other arguments may be specified.
If only the first argument is specified, the SBCS characters
of the argument are converted to uppercase, based on the CCSID of
the argument. Only SBCS characters are converted. The characters a-z
are converted to A-Z, and characters with diacritical marks are converted
to their uppercase equivalent, if any. If the first argument is UTF–16,
UCS-2, or UTF-8, the alphabetic UTF-16, UCS-2, or UTF-8 characters
are converted to uppercase. Refer to the UCS-2 level 1
mapping tables topic of the Globalization topic
collection for a description of the monocasing tables that are used
for this conversion.
If more than one argument is specified, the result string
is built character by character from expression, converting
characters in from-string to the corresponding character in to-string.
For each character in expression, the same character is searched
for in from-string. If the character is found to be the nth
character in from-string, the resulting string will contain
the nth character from to-string. If to-string is
less than n characters long, the resulting string will contain
the pad character. If the character is not found in from-string,
it is moved to the result string unconverted.
Conversion is done on a byte basis and, if used improperly,
may result in an invalid mixed string. The SRTSEQ attribute does not
apply to the TRANSLATE function.
The result of the function has the same data type, length
attribute, actual length, and CCSID as the argument. If the first
argument can be null, the result can be null. If the argument is null,
the result is the null value.
ExamplesMonocase the string 'abcdef'.   SELECT TRANSLATE('abcdef')
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
Returns
the value 'ABCDEF'.
Monocase the mixed character string.
  SELECT
TRANSLATE()
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
Returns
the value

Given that the host variable SITE is a varying-length character
string with a value of 'Pivabiska Lake Place'.   SELECT TRANSLATE(:SITE, '$', 'L')
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
Returns
the value 'Pivabiska $ake Place'.   SELECT TRANSLATE(:SITE, '$$', 'Ll')
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
Returns
the value 'Pivabiska $ake P$ace'.
  SELECT TRANSLATE(:SITE, 'pLA', 'Place', '.')
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
Returns
the value 'pivAbiskA LAk. pLA..'.

Parent topic: Scalar functions