Change Cluster Version (CHGCLUVER)

Change Cluster Version (CHGCLUVER)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: Yes | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Change Cluster Version (CHGCLUVER) command is used to adjust the current version of the PowerHA product. The current PowerHA version is the version at which the nodes in the cluster managed by the PowerHA product are actively communicating with each other. In addition, the version value determines what nodes can join into the cluster and the cluster's and PowerHA product's ability to use new functions supported by the nodes' potential versions. The values are initially set when the cluster is created. This command can be used to adjust the current PowerHA version to be one version greater than the existing current PowerHA version. To view the current cluster and PowerHA versions, use the Display Cluster Information (DSPCLUINF) command.

This command can only be used to adjust to a higher PowerHA version. The only way to change the PowerHA version to a lower version is to delete and recreate the cluster at the lower version.

This command will not cause the cluster resource group exit program to be called.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority on all nodes in the cluster to run this command.

- This command must be invoked from a cluster node with a status of Active.

- This command cannot be used if the cluster is in a partitioned state.

- The current PowerHA version cannot be set higher than the lowest PowerHA potential version of any node in the cluster. To view the potential node and PowerHA versions, use the Display Cluster Information (DSPCLUINF) command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
CLUSTER | Cluster | Name | Required, Positional 1
CLUVER | Cluster version | *UP1VER, *SAME | Optional
HAVER | PowerHA version | *SAME, *UP1VER, *UP1MOD | Optional

Top

Cluster (CLUSTER)

Specifies the name of the cluster.

*
The cluster that has been configured on this system is used.

name
Specify the name of the cluster.

Top

Cluster version (CLUVER)

Specifies the way in which the current cluster version is to be adjusted.

*UP1VER
The current cluster version is incremented by one version.

*SAME
The current cluster version is not changed.

Top

PowerHA version (HAVER)

Specifies the way in which the current PowerHA version is to be adjusted.

*UP1VER
The current PowerHA version is incremented by one version.

Top

Examples for CHGCLUVER

CHGCLUVER HAVER(*UP1VER) CLUSTER(MYCLUSTER)

This command adjusts the current PowerHA version of cluster MYCLUSTER by one version. If the current PowerHA version was 2.0, it is set to 3.0 as a result of this command.

Top

Error messages for CHGCLUVER

*ESCAPE Messages

HAE0013
Cluster or PowerHA version of cluster &1 not changed.

HAE004B
Current PowerHA version cannot be set to &1.

Top