Edit Recovery for Access Paths (EDTRCYAP)

Edit Recovery for Access Paths (EDTRCYAP)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: Interactive environments (*INTERACT *IPGM *IREXX *EXEC)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Edit Recovery for Access Paths (EDTRCYAP) command shows a list of access path recovery times for the system and for auxiliary storage pools (ASP) that are currently active on the system. From this list, you can change target access path recovery times and view updated recovery status information. Additionally, the command will show up to 500 access paths with the largest estimated access path recovery time which are not eligible for system-managed access-path protection and why they are not eligible. Also, the command will show up to 500 access paths with the largest estimated access path recovery time which are currently being protected by system-managed access-path-protection.

The system uses no more than the specified amount of target access path recovery time when recovering access paths during an initial program load (IPL) or vary on of an independent ASP after an abnormal system end. Because the access path recovery time is a target, performance may range around the target.

The time taken to rebuild access paths exposed while running the Copy File (CPYF), the Reorganize Physical File Member (RGZPFM), or the Restore Object (RSTOBJ) commands is not considered in the target access path recovery time of access paths protected with this command.

You can use this command or the Change Recovery for Access Paths (CHGRCYAP) command to manage the protection of access paths that are not already protected through journaling.

For more information on using this command, see the "Journal management" topic in the IBM i Information Center at http://www.ibm.com/systems/i/infocenter/.

This command has no parameters.

Restrictions:

- You must have job control (*JOBCTL) special authority to use this command.

- This command is shipped with public *EXCLUDE authority, and the QPGMR and QSYSOPR user profiles have private authorities to use this command.

- If the current access path recovery state is *OFF, the user must be in a restricted state to activate system-managed access-path protection by specifying a target access path recovery time value.

- If no user auxiliary storage pools (ASPs) exist on the system, an access path recovery time for ASP 1 cannot be specified. You must specify a system access path recovery time.

Top

Parameters

None

Top

Examples

EDTRCYAP

This command shows the Edit Recovery for Access Paths display from which you can show or modify the target access path recovery times for your system and configured user auxiliary storage pools (ASPs).

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF70FA
Recovery times reset before changes completed.

CPF70FB
No authority to use command.

CPF70FC
ASP time changes not valid with system time of *OFF.

CPF70FE
ASP time changes not valid when system time is *OFF.

CPF70F4
Error occurred.

CPF70F7
Restricted system required to change recovery times.

CPF70F9
Not all recovery time changes made active.

CPF700F
Access path recovery time for &1 set to *NONE.

CPF701C
Change to system access path recovery time canceled.

CPF701D
Error occurred during change of recovery times.

CPF701E
Access path protection cannot be turned *OFF.

CPF702E
Access path recovery times set to system defaults.

CPF9814
Device &1 not found.

CPF9825
Not authorized to device &1.

CPF9871
Error occurred while processing.

CPFB8ED
Device description &1 not correct for operation.

Top