HASHED_VALUE

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

HASHED_VALUE
The HASHED_VALUE function returns the partition map index
number of a row obtained by applying the hashing function on the partitioning
key value of the row.
HASHED_VALUE(table-designator)
Also see the HASH function.
If the argument identifies a non-distributed table, the value 0 is
returned. For more information about partition maps and partitioning
keys, see the DB2® Multisystem topic
collection.
table-designator
A table designator of the subselect. For more information about
table designators, see Table designators. In
SQL naming, the table name may be qualified. In system naming, the
table name cannot be qualified.
The table-designator must
not identify a collection-derived-table, a
VALUES clause, a table-function, or a data-change-table-reference.
If
the argument identifies a view, common table expression, or nested
table expression, the function returns the partition map index number
of its base table. If the argument identifies a view, common table
expression, or nested table expression derived from more than one
base table, the function returns the partition map index number of
the first table in the outer subselect of the view, common table expression,
or nested table expression.
The argument must not identify a
view, common table expression, or nested table expression whose outer
fullselect includes an aggregate function, a GROUP BY clause, a HAVING
clause, a UNION, INTERSECT, or EXCEPT clause,
DISTINCT clause, VALUES clause, or a table-function. The HASHED_VALUE
function cannot be specified in a SELECT clause if the fullselect
contains an aggregate function, a GROUP BY clause, or a HAVING clause

The data type of the result is a large integer with a
value between 0 and 1023. The result can be null.
NoteSyntax alternatives: PARTITION
is a synonym for HASHED_VALUE.
ExampleSelect the employee number (EMPNO) from the EMPLOYEE table for
all rows where the partition map index number is equal to 100.   SELECT EMPNO
    FROM EMPLOYEE
    WHERE HASHED_VALUE(EMPLOYEE) = 100

Parent topic: Scalar functions