Controlling information written in a job log

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Log messages > Job log > Job log

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Log messages > Job log

Controlling information written in a job log
To control what information the system writes
in the job log, specify the LOG parameter on the Create Job Description
(CRTJOBD) command. You can change the levels by using the Change
Job (CHGJOB) command or the Change Job Description (CHGJOBD) command.
Three values make up the LOG parameter: message level, message
severity, and message text level.
The first value, message level, has
the following levels:
Level
Description
0
No data is logged.
1
The only information to be logged is all messages sent to the job's external
message queue with a severity greater than or equal to the message severity
specified. Messages of this type indicate when the job started, when it ended,
and its status at completion.
2
The following information is logged: Level 1 logging information.
Any requests that result in high-level messages with a severity greater
than or equal to the severity specified. If the request is logged, all of
its associated messages are also logged.

3
The following information is logged: Logging level 1 and 2 information.
All requests.
Commands run by a CL program if allowed by the Log CL program
commands job attribute and the Log attribute of
the CL program.

4
The following information is logged: All requests and all messages with a severity code greater than or equal
to the severity specified, including trace messages.
Commands run by a CL program if allowed by the Log CL program
commands job attribute and the Log attribute of
the CL program. Note: A high-level message is one that is sent to the program
message queue of the program that receives the request. For example, QCMD
is an IBM-supplied request processing program that receives requests.

The second value, message severity, specifies the severity
level in conjunction with the log level that causes error messages to be logged
in the job log. Values 0 through 99 are allowed.
The third value in
the LOG parameter, message text level, specifies the level of message text
that is written in the job log. The values are:
*SAME
The current value for the message text level does not change.
*MSG
Only message text is written to the job log (message help is not included).
*SECLVL
The message and the message help (cause and recovery) are written to the
job log.

Parent topic: Job log