SUBSTR

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

SUBSTR
The SUBSTR function returns a substring of a string.
SUBSTR(expression,start,length)
expression
An expression that specifies the string from which the result
is derived. Expression must be any built-in
numeric or string data type. A numeric argument is cast to a character
string before evaluating the function. For more information about
converting numeric to a character string, see VARCHAR. If expression is
a character string, the result of the function is a character string.
If it is a graphic string, the result of the function is a graphic
string. If it is a binary string, the result of the function is a
binary string.
A substring of expression is
zero or more contiguous characters of expression.
If expression is a graphic string, a character
is a DBCS or Unicode graphic character. If expression is
a character string, a character is a byte.1 If expression is
a binary string, a character is a byte.

start
An expression that specifies the position within expression of
the first character (or byte) of the result. The expression must return
a value that is a built-in BIGINT, INTEGER, or SMALLINT data type. A value of 1 indicates that the first character of the
result is the first character of expression.
A negative or zero value indicates a position before the beginning
of the string. It may also be greater than the length attribute
of expression. (The length attribute of
a varying-length string is its maximum length.)

length
An expression that specifies the length of the result. If specified, length must
be an expression that returns a value that is a built-in BIGINT, INTEGER,
or SMALLINT data type. The value must be greater than or equal to
0. If length is explicitly specified, expression is
effectively padded on the right with the necessary number of blank
characters so that the specified substring of expression always
exists. Hexadecimal zeroes are used as the padding character when expression is
a binary string.
If expression is
a fixed-length string, omission of length is
an implicit specification of LENGTH(expression)
- start + 1, which is the number of characters
(or bytes) from the start character (or
byte) to the last character (or byte) of expression.
If expression is a varying-length string,
omission of length is an implicit specification
of zero or LENGTH(expression) - start +
1, whichever is greater. If the resulting length is zero, the result
is the empty string.

The data type of the result depends on the data type of expression:
Data type of expression
Data Type of the
Result for SUBSTR

CHAR or VARCHAR
CHAR, if: length is explicitly specified by
an integer constant that is greater than zero.
length is not explicitly specified,
but expression is a fixed-length string
and start is an integer constant.

VARCHAR, in all other cases

CLOB
CLOB

GRAPHIC or VARGRAPHIC
GRAPHIC, if: length is explicitly specified by an
integer constant that is greater than zero.
length is not explicitly specified,
but expression is a fixed-length string
and start is an integer constant.

VARGRAPHIC, in all other cases.

DBCLOB
DBCLOB

BINARY or VARBINARY
BINARY, if: length is explicitly specified by an
integer constant that is greater than zero.
length is not explicitly specified,
but expression is a fixed-length string
and start is an integer constant.

VARBINARY, in all other cases.

BLOB
BLOB

If expression is not a LOB,
the length attribute of the result depends on length, start,
and the attributes of expression.
If length is explicitly specified by
an integer constant that is greater than zero, the length attribute
of the result is length.
If length is not explicitly specified,
but expression is a fixed-length string
and start is an integer constant, the length
attribute of the result is LENGTH(expression)
- start + 1.

In all other cases, the length attribute of the result
is the same as the length attribute of expression.
(Remember that if the actual length of expression is
less than the value for start, the actual
length of the substring is zero.)
If any argument can be null, the result can be null; if
any argument is null, the result is the null value.
The CCSID of the result is the same as that of expression.
ExamplesAssume the host variable NAME (VARCHAR(50)) has a value of 'KATIE
AUSTIN' and the host variable SURNAME_POS (INTEGER) has a value of
7.   SELECT SUBSTR(:NAME, :SURNAME_POS)
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
Returns
the value 'AUSTIN'.
Likewise,   SELECT SUBSTR(:NAME, :SURNAME_POS, 1)
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
Returns
the value 'A'.
Select all rows from the PROJECT table for which the project name
(PROJNAME) starts with the word 'OPERATION '.   SELECT *
FROM PROJECT
    WHERE SUBSTR(PROJNAME,1,10) = 'OPERATION '
The
space at the end of the constant is necessary to preclude initial
words such as 'OPERATIONS'.

Parent topic: Scalar functions

1 The SUBSTR function
accepts mixed data strings. However, because SUBSTR operates on a
strict byte-count basis, the result will not necessarily be a properly
formed mixed data string.