GIVING Phrase

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > MERGE Statement > MERGE Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > MERGE Statement

GIVING Phrase
file-name-4, ...
Specifies input files.

When the GIVING phrase is specified, all the merged records in file-name-1
are automatically transferred to the output file (file-name-4). At the start
of execution of the MERGE statement, the file referenced by file-name-4 must
not be open. For each of the files referenced by file-name-4, the execution
of the MERGE statement causes the following actions to be taken:
The processing of the file is initiated. The initiation is performed as
if an OPEN statement with the OUTPUT phrase had been executed.
The merged logical records are returned and written onto the file. Each
record is written as if a WRITE statement without any optional phrases had
been executed. The records overwrite the previous contents, if any, of the
file.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension If file-name-1 is a logical database file, the records
are added to the end of the file. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension
If the file referenced by file-name-4
is an INDEXED file then the associated key data-name for that file must have
an ASCENDING KEY phrase in the merge statement. This same data-name must occupy
the identical character positions in its record as the data item associated
with the prime record key for the file.

For a relative file, the relative
key data item for the first record returned contains the value '1';
for the second record returned, the value '2', and so on. After execution
of the MERGE statement, the content of the relative key data item indicates
the last record returned to the file.

The processing of the file is terminated, as if a CLOSE statement without
optional phrases had been executed.

Note: When duplicate keys are found when writing to an indexed
file, the MERGE will terminate and the merged data in all GIVING files will
be incomplete.

These implicit functions are performed such that any associated USE AFTER
EXCEPTION/ERROR procedures are executed; however, the execution of such a
USE procedure must not cause the execution of any statement manipulating the
file referenced by, or accessing the record area associated with, file-name-4.
On the first attempt to write beyond the externally defined boundaries of
the file, any USE AFTER STANDARD EXCEPTION/ERROR procedure specified for the
file is executed. If control is returned from that USE procedure or if no
such USE procedure is specified, the processing of the file is terminated.
The output file must be described in an FD entry in the Data Division,
and its record description(s) must describe records of the same size as the
record described for the merge file. If the elementary items that make up
these records are not identical, the output record must have an equal number
of character positions as the merge record.
The output file must have a sequential, relative or indexed organization.
The output file should be created without a keyed sequence access path.
Otherwise, the MERGE statement cannot override the collating sequence defined
in the data description specifications (DDS).
If the output files (file-name-4) contain variable-length records, the
size of the records contained in file-name-1 must be no less than the largest
record described in the output files. If the output files contain fixed-length
records, the size of the records contained in file-name-1 must be no greater
than the largest record described for the output files.

Parent topic: MERGE Statement