Work with Held Optical Files (WRKHLDOPTF)

Work with Held Optical Files (WRKHLDOPTF)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: Interactive environments (*INTERACT *IPGM *IREXX *EXEC)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Work with Held Optical Files (WRKHLDOPTF) command displays a list of held optical files and provides options to save, release, and display usage information about the held optical files. For more information on held optical files, refer to the Optical Support, SC41-4310 book.

Restrictions:

- To use this command you must have *USE authority to the authorization list securing the volume associated with the held optical files.

- To save the held file, you must have *CHANGE authority to the authorization list of the volume to which the file is saved.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
VOL | Volume identifier | Character value, *ALL | Optional, Positional 1

Top

Volume identifier (VOL)

Specifies the volume identifier where the optical files were to be stored, had they not been held. This is the volume identifier that was specified when the files were opened.

*ALL
All held optical files on the system for all optical volumes are listed.

volume-identifier
Specify the volume identifier of the volume that was specified when the files were opened.

generic*-volume-identifier
Specify the generic name of the volume identifier to be listed. A generic name is a character string of one or more characters followed by an asterisk (*); for example, ABC*. The asterisk substitutes for any valid characters. A generic name specifies all objects with names that begin with the generic prefix for which the user has authority. If an asterisk is not included with the generic (prefix) name, the system assumes it to be the complete object name.

Top

Examples

WRKHLDOPTF

This command displays a list of all held optical files for all optical volumes and provides options to save, release, and display usage information about the held optical files.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

OPT1234
Held file can not be saved.

OPT1239
Error saving held optical files.

OPT1342
Invalid volume identifier specified.

OPT2301
Internal system object in use.

Top