Delete CRG Cluster (DLTCRGCLU)

Delete CRG Cluster (DLTCRGCLU)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: Yes | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Delete Cluster Resource Group from Cluster (DLTCRGCLU) command deletes a cluster resource group from all cluster nodes in the recovery domain. Cluster Resource Services must be active to use this command. The cluster resource group object is marked for deletion and is deleted on each active cluster node. The cluster resource group object will be deleted on other nodes in the cluster when they become active.

Deleting a device cluster resource group will not change the ownership of devices. The devices remain on whatever node owns them at the time of the delete.

If Cluster Resource Services configured the takeover IP address for an application cluster resource group and the IP interface is not active, the takeover IP address will be removed. If Cluster Resource Services finds that the takeover IP address is active, the command will fail.

If an exit program is specified for the cluster resource group, the cluster resource group exit program is called on each active node in the recovery domain with an action code of Verification Phase and action code dependent data of Delete. The cluster resource group status is set to Delete Pending. The cluster resource group exit program is called with an action code of Delete if the verification phase is successful. The cluster resource group will not be deleted if the verification phase fails. This command will not call the cluster resource group exit program with an action code of Undo when the verification phase fails.

The Delete Cluster Resource Group (DLTCRG) command can be used to delete a cluster resource group object on a system that does not have Cluster Resource Services active.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority on all nodes in the recovery domain to run this command.

- Cluster Resource Services must be active on the node processing the request.

- The status of the cluster resource group being deleted must not be active.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
CRG | Cluster resource group | Name | Required, Positional 1
CLUSTER | Cluster | Name, * | Optional

Top

Cluster resource group (CRG)

Specifies the cluster resource group that is to be deleted.

This is a required parameter.

name
Specify the name of the cluster resource group that is to be deleted.

Top

Cluster (CLUSTER)

Specifies the name of the cluster.

*
The cluster that has been configured on this system is used.

name
Specify the name of the cluster.

Top

Examples for DLTCRGCLU

DLTCRGCLU CRG(MYCRG)

This command deletes the cluster resource group named MYCRG from the cluster.

Top

Error messages for DLTCRGCLU

*ESCAPE Messages

HAE0018
Cluster resource group &1 not deleted.

Top