File Translation

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > General File Considerations > General File Considerations

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > General File Considerations

File Translation

The file translation function translates any of the 8-bit codes
used for characters into another 8-bit code. The use of file translation
indicates one or both of the following:

A character code used in the input data must be translated into
the system code.

The output data must be translated from the system code into a
different code. The translation on input data occurs before any field
selection has taken place. The translation on output data occurs after
any editing taken place.

Remember the following when specifying file translation:

File translation can be specified for data in array or table files
(T in position 18 of the file description specifications).

File translation can be used with data in combined, input, or
update files that are translated at input and output time according
to the file translation table provided. If file translation is used
to translate data in an update file, each record must be written before
the next record is read.

For any I/O operation that specifies a search argument in factor
1 (such as CHAIN, READE, READPE, SETGT, or SETLL) for files accessed
by keys, the search argument is translated before the file is accessed.

If file translation is specified for both a record address file
and the file being processed (if the file being processed is processed
sequentially within limits), the records in the record address file
are first translated according to the file translation specified for
that file, and then the records in the file being processed are translated
according to the file translation specified for that file.

File translation applies only on a single byte basis.

Every byte in the input and output record is translated.

File translation is not supported for local files defined
in subprocedures.

Specifying File Translation

Translating One File or All Files

Translating More Than One File

Parent topic: General File Considerations