Remove CRG Node Entry (RMVCRGNODE)

Remove CRG Node Entry (RMVCRGNODE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: Yes | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Remove Cluster Resource Group Node Entry (RMVCRGNODE) command is used to remove a node from the recovery domain of a cluster resource group. The node being removed does not need to be active in the cluster to be removed from the recovery domain. When the node is removed from the recovery domain, the cluster resource group object is deleted from that system.

For primary-backup model, if the cluster resource group has no backup nodes in either the current recovery domain or the preferred recovery domain, the primary node cannot be removed.

This command results in the preferred recovery domain and the current recovery domain being updated.

This command will do the following for all cluster resource group types:

- Set the cluster resource group status to Remove Node Pending.

- Call the exit program on all active nodes in the recovery domain with an action code of Remove Node, if an exit program is specified for the cluster resource group.

- Reset the cluster resource group status to the value at the time the command was called, if the exit program completes successfully on all nodes.

- Set the cluster resource group status to Indoubt if the exit program fails on any node and the original state of the cluster resource group cannot be recovered.

This command will do the following for application cluster resource group:

- If Cluster Resource Services configured the takeover IP address, it will be removed.

This command will do the following for device cluster resource groups:

- If the node being removed is the current primary node, ownership of the devices specified in the cluster resource group are switched from the current primary to the new primary if none of the configuration objects on the current primary are varied on. If any configuration objects are varied on, an error message is returned. In addition, the new primary node must be active. Devices are not varied on after the ownership is switched. The node which is to become the new primary must be active in the cluster.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority on all nodes in the recovery domain to run this command.

- This command cannot be called from a cluster resource group exit program.

- Cluster Resource Services must be started on the node processing the request.

- At least one node in the recovery domain must be active.

- For primary-backup model cluster resource groups:

The cluster resource group status must not be Active in order to remove the node that is currently the primary.

If the cluster resource group has no backup nodes, the primary node cannot be removed.

- For peer model cluster resource groups, the last node designated as a peer node cannot be removed if the cluster resource group status is Active.

- At least node must remain active in the recovery domain of the cluster resource group after the successful completion of the remove operation.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
CRG | Cluster resource group | Name | Required, Positional 1
NODE | Node identifier | Name | Required, Positional 2
CLUSTER | Cluster | Name, * | Optional

Top

Cluster resource group (CRG)

Specifies the cluster resource group from which the node will be removed.

This is a required parameter.

name
Specify the name of the cluster resource group.

Top

Node identifier (NODE)

Specifies the node that is to be removed from the recovery domain of the cluster resource group.

This is a required parameter.

name
Specify the name of the node that is to be removed.

Top

Cluster (CLUSTER)

Specifies the name of the cluster.

*
The cluster that has been configured on this system is used.

name
Specify the name of the cluster.

Top

Examples for RMVCRGNODE

RMVCRGNODE CRG(MYCRG) NODE(RCHCST03)

This command removes node RCHCST03 from the recovery domain of cluster resource group MYCRG.

Top

Error messages for RMVCRGNODE

*ESCAPE Messages

HAE001A
Node &1 not removed from cluster resource group &2.

Top