ROLLBACK Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > Procedure Division Statements

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension
ROLLBACK Statement
The ROLLBACK statement provides a way to cancel one or more changes
to database records when the changes should not remain permanent.

ROLLBACK Statement - Format

>>-ROLLBACK----------------------------------------------------><

When the ROLLBACK statement is executed, any changes made to files
under commitment control since the last commitment boundary are removed
from the database. Note that when a file is cleared while being opened
for OUTPUT, execution of a ROLLBACK statement does not restore cleared
records to the file.
A commitment boundary is the previous occurrence of a ROLLBACK
or COMMIT statement. If no COMMIT or ROLLBACK has been issued, the
commitment boundary is the first OPEN of a file under commitment control.
Removal of changes takes place for all files under commitment control
and not just for files under commitment control in the COBOL program
that issues the ROLLBACK.
Once the ROLLBACK is successfully executed, all record locks held
for files under commitment control are released and the records become
available to other jobs. Commitment control can be scoped at the job
level or the activation group level. (Commitment control is scoped
at the activation group level by default.)
The ROLLBACK has no effect on files not under commitment control.
If a ROLLBACK is executed and there are no files under commitment
control, the ROLLBACK is ignored.
A file under commitment control can be opened or closed without
affecting the status of changes made since the last commitment boundary.
A COMMIT must still be issued to make the changes permanent. A ROLLBACK,
when executed, leaves files in the same open or closed state as before
execution.
The ROLLBACK statement does not: Modify the I-O-FEEDBACK area for any file
Set a file status value for any file.

For the ROLLBACK statement, the following considerations apply: The ROLLBACK statement sets the file position indicator to its
position at the previous commitment boundary. This is important to
remember if you are doing sequential processing.
If no COMMIT statement has been issued since the file was opened,
the ROLLBACK statement sets the file position indicator to its position
at the OPEN.
The file position indicator is undefined after a ROLLBACK if the
file is closed with uncommitted changes.

If commitment control is scoped at the job level, an implicit ROLLBACK
of uncommitted records is automatically done for all files under commitment
control at the end of every job. Any uncommitted changes to the database
are cancelled.
If commitment control is scoped at the activation group level,
an implicit commit occurs when the activation group ends normally.
If the activation group ends abnormally, an implicit ROLLBACK occurs.
For more information on commitment control, see the IBM® Rational® Development Studio
for i: ILE COBOL Programmer's Guide.

Parent topic: Procedure Division Statements

End of IBM Extension End of IBM Extension