Bibliography

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > ILE RPG Reference

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference

Bibliography

For additional information about topics related to ILE RPG programming,
refer to the following publications:

CL Programming, SC41-5721, provides a wide-ranging discussion of
programming topics including a general discussion on objects and libraries,
CL programming, controlling flow and communicating between programs, working
with objects in CL programs, and creating CL programs. Other topics include
predefined and impromptu messages and message handling, defining and creating
user-defined commands and menus, application testing, including debug mode,
breakpoints, traces, and display functions.
See the IBM® i
Information Center programming
category for a description of the IBM i
control language
(CL) and its commands.

Communications Management, SC41-5406, provides information about work management
in a communications environment, communications status, tracing and diagnosing
communications problems, error handling and recovery, performance, and specific
line speed and subsystem storage information.

See the IBM i
Information Center database
and file systems category for related database programming topics such as,
using files in application programs, database organization, data description
specifications (DDS) and DDS keywords, distributed data management (DDM),
embedded SQL programming,
and application programming interfaces.

Experience RPG
IV Multimedia Tutorial, GK2T-9882-00 is an interactive self-study program
explaining the differences between RPG III and RPG IV and how to work within
the new ILE environment. An accompanying workbook provides additional exercises
and doubles as a reference upon completion of the tutorial. ILE RPG code examples
are shipped with the tutorial and run directly on the operating system.

ILE Concepts, SC41-5606, explains concepts and terminology pertaining
to the Integrated Language Environment® (ILE) architecture. Topics covered
include creating modules, binding, running programs, debugging programs, and
handling exceptions.

Rational® Development Studio for i: ILE RPG Programmer's Guide, SC09-2507, provides information about the ILE RPG
programming language, which is an implementation of the RPG IV language in
the Integrated Language Environment (ILE). It includes information on creating
and running programs, with considerations for procedure calls and interlanguage
programming. The guide also covers debugging and exception handling and explains
how to use files and devices in RPG programs. Appendixes include information
on migration to RPG IV and sample compiler listings. It is intended for people
with a basic understanding of data processing concepts and of the RPG language.

Who Knew You Could
Do That with RPG IV? A Sorcerer's Guide to System Access and More, SG24-5402 provides hints and tips
for system programmers who want to take full advantage of RPG IV and the Integrated Language Environment (ILE).

Parent topic: ILE RPG Reference