Submit Network Job (SBMNETJOB)

Submit Network Job (SBMNETJOB)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Submit Network Job (SBMNETJOB) command sends an input stream to another user on the SNADS network. (The input stream is sent to another user where it can be filed, submitted, or rejected.) When the input stream arrives, its placement is governed by the job action (JOBACN) network attribute. If the value of JOBACN is *SEARCH, the entry in the network job table at the receiving system is used to determine the action taken. At the receiving system, the job may be submitted immediately, filed for placement by the receiving user, or rejected.

When the input stream arrives at the destination system, a message is sent to both the recipient of the input stream as well as the originator of the input stream stating that the input stream arrived. This command can only be used to send a batch input stream to a user on a remote system.

Restrictions:

- To use this command, the user must have object operational and read authority to the file that is submitted, and for the library that contains the file.

- The user must be enrolled in the system distribution directory to use this command. (For information on enrolling in the system distribution directory, see the SNA Distribution Services book, SC41-5410.

- If the job action (JOBACN) network attribute on the receiving system is set to *SEARCH, there must be an entry for the user in the network job table on the receiving system. The entry in this table specifies a user profile on the receiving system that is used to verify that the user is authorized to submit the job on that system. The user profile on the receiving system must be authorized to use the job queues, and must have object operational authority for the job descriptions specified by the JOB commands in the input stream.

- The file that is submitted cannot contain more than approximately 2 billion bytes of data.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
FILE | File | Qualified object name | Required, Positional 1
Qualifier 1: File | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
TOUSRID | User ID | Values (up to 50 repetitions): Element list | Required, Positional 2
Element 1: User ID | Character value
Element 2: Address | Character value
MBR | Member | Name, *FIRST | Optional, Positional 3
PTY | Send priority | *NORMAL, *HIGH | Optional

Top

File (FILE)

Specifies the name and library of the physical file containing the input stream that is sent.

This is a required parameter.

The possible library values are:

*LIBL
The library list is used to locate the file.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is used to locate the file. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, QGPL is used.

library-name
Specify the library where the file is located.

Top

User ID (TOUSRID)

Specifies the two-part user ID of one or more users to whom the input stream is submitted, or the name of one or more distribution lists containing the two-part user IDs of one or more users to whom the file is to be sent. A combination of both user IDs and distribution lists can be specified on the same command. Each user ID or distribution list is specified as a two-part name, and both parts are required.

NOTES:

- Depending on the type of work station being used, the internal value for a user identifier may differ from the characters shown by the Display Directory Entries (DSPDIRE) command. If the byte-string value specified for the TOUSRID parameter does not match the rules for an internal user identifier value, or if it does not match the internal value for any enrolled user, an error may be reported.

- The user specified in this parameter, or in the distribution list, must be a remote user. The SBMNETJOB command cannot be used to send input streams to local users.

You can enter multiple values for this parameter.

Top

Member (MBR)

Specifies the member that is sent from the file.

*FIRST
The first member (in creation order) in the file is submitted.

member-name
Specify the name of the file member that is submitted.

Top

Send priority (PTY)

Specifies the queuing priority used for the input stream when it is being routed through a SNADS network.

The possible values are:

*NORMAL
The input stream is sent with a service level priority of data low, which is used for most data traffic. On a System i5, data low distributions are placed on the normal distribution queue specified for the route.

*HIGH
The input stream is sent with a service level priority of data high, which is used for high priority data traffic. On a System i5, data high distributions are placed on the data high distribution queue specified for the route.

Top

Examples

SBMNETJOB FILE(PAYROLL) TOUSRID(PAYROLL SYSTEM1)
MBR(WEEKLY)

This command sends the input streams contained in member WEEKLY of file PAYROLL to user ID PAYROLL SYSTEM1.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF8056
File &1 in &2 not a physical file.

CPF8058
File &1 is a spooled file.

CPF8063
Cannot assign necessary resource.

CPF8065
Input stream &1 in &2 member &3 not sent to any users.

CPF8066
One or more user identifiers on this command is not correct.

CPF8068
Error detected while processing file to be sent.

CPF8072
Object to be sent is greater than maximum size of 2GB.

CPF9005
System resource required to complete this request not available.

CPF9006
User not enrolled in system distribution directory.

CPF9803
Cannot allocate object &2 in library &3.

CPF9807
One or more libraries in library list deleted.

CPF9808
Cannot allocate one or more libraries on library list.

CPF9810
Library &1 not found.

CPF9812
File &1 in library &2 not found.

CPF9820
Not authorized to use library &1.

CPF9822
Not authorized to file &1 in library &2.

CPF9830
Cannot assign library &1.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

CPF9846
Error while processing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9847
Error occurred while closing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9848
Cannot open file &1 in library &2 member &3.

CPF9849
Error while processing file &1 in library &2 member &3.

Top