allowmissing (default no)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes > XML-INTO (Parse an XML Document into a Variable) > %DATA and %XML options for DATA-GEN, DATA-INTO, and XML-INTO > %DATA and %XML options for DATA-GEN, DATA-INTO, and XML-INTO

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes > XML-INTO (Parse an XML Document into a Variable) > %DATA and %XML options for DATA-GEN, DATA-INTO, and XML-INTO

allowmissing (default no)

The allowmissing option is used for DATA-INTO and XML-INTO.

For the situation where the document does not have sufficient
items for the subfields of an RPG data structure,
you can use the allowmissing option to indicate whether
this is considered an error. Data is considered to be missing
in the following circumstances:

For an item matching an RPG data structure (including a
data structure subfield), if the item in the document does not have child items
for all RPG subfields.

For data matching an array subfield of an RPG data structure,
if the number of items in the document is less than the dimension of the RPG
subfield array.

If expected data is not found, and 'allowmissing=yes' is not
specified, the operation will fail with status 00353 (XML does not
match the RPG variable) or status 00356 (The document for DATA-INTO does not match
the RPG variable).

Tip:
The countprefix option can also be used to handle
the situation where the document might not have sufficient
data for every subfield in the data structure.

To allow fewer array elements for the array specified on the XML-INTO
or DATA-INTO operation, it is not necessary to specify 'allowmissing=yes'. If the
document contains fewer elements than the RPG array, the operation
will not fail. The "Number of Elements" subfield in positions
372 - 379 of the PSDS can be used to determine the number of elements
successfully set by the operation.

no indicates that data
must be present for every subfield of a data structure (including
subfields of data structure subfields), and data must be present
for every element of every subfield array.

yes indicates that when data is not present for every
subfield and subfield array element, the operation will not fail.
If a variable is specified as the first operand of XML-INTO or DATA-INTO, the unset
subfields will hold the same value they held before the operation.
If %HANDLER is specified as the first operand of XML-INTO or DATA-INTO, the unset
subfields of the array passed to the handling procedure will have
the default value for the type (zero for numeric values, *LOVAL for
date values and so on).

Examples of the allowmissing option with insufficient data for subfield arrays

Examples of the allowmissing option with insufficient data for all subfields

Parent topic: %DATA and %XML options for DATA-GEN, DATA-INTO, and XML-INTO