Add RIP Filter (ADDRIPFLT)

Add RIP Filter (ADDRIPFLT)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Add RIP Filter (ADDRIPFLT) command defines a RIP Filter that the OMPROUTED server will add into the RIP (Routing Information Protocol) configuration file. Filters can be set stand-alone in the OMPROUTED configuration file (nosend and noreceive only) to apply to all configured RIP interfaces.

RIP Filters can be configured to OMPROUTED such that certain RIP routing information will not be sent out to other routers and/or accepted from other routers. By using filters, an installation can limit the amount of RIP routing information sent into the network and/or the amount of RIP routing information maintained by OMPROUTED. In addition, filters can be used to hide destination addresses from portions of the network.

With this command IPv4 (RIPv2) and IPv6 (RIPng) filters can be configured.

In order to add an IPv4 RIP filter to the configuration file, the Destination route (DEST), the Filter type (TYPE) and the Subnet mask (SUBNETMASK) parameters are required. The Prefix length (PFXLEN) parameter would be ignored for IPv4 routes. However, in order to add an IPv6 RIP filter, the Destination route (DEST), the Filter type (TYPE) and the Prefix length (PFXLEN) parameters are required. The Subnet mask (SUBNETMASK) parameter would be ignored for IPv6 routes.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority to run this command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
DEST | Destination route | Character value | Required, Positional 1
TYPE | Filter type | *NOSND, *NORCV | Required, Positional 2
SUBNETMASK | Subnet mask | Character value, *HOST | Optional
PFXLEN | Prefix length | 1-128, 128 | Optional

Top

Destination route (DEST)

The Destination route parameter specifies the route in network, subnetwork, or host format in dotted decimal form for IPv4 or the route in colon-hexadecimal format for IPv6. Alternatively, wildcards (*IPV4 or *IPV6), which matches any destination, can be set to filter out all routes sent or received over an interface. The use of the wildcards is also referred to as a blackhole filter. This should be used in conjunction with either additional send or receive filters to allow only certain routes to be received; or advertised over an interface or set of interfaces. The address can be an IPv4 or IPv6 address.

Note: The blackhole nosend filter does not filter out the sending of the default route when the Condition (COND), Cost (COST) and Accept default (ACPDFT) parameters (or their IPv6 equivalents) are also configured with the Change RIP Attributes (CHGRIPA) command.

character-value
Specify the internet address of the destination route to be accepted. An IPv4 internet address is specified in the form nnn.nnn.nnn.nnn where nnn is a decimal number between 0 and 255. An IPv6 internet address is specified in the form n:n:n:n:n:n:n:n where n is a hexadecimal number in the range from 0 through X'ffff'. The value "::" indicates that one or more groups of 16 bits are zero.

Top

Filter type (TYPE)

Specifies if the filter will be used to block routes coming in or going out of the server.

This is a required parameter.

*NOSND
Specifies that routes matching the Destination route (DEST) parameter and subnet mask (IPv4) / prefix length (IPv6) are not going to be sent over RIP interfaces. This option serves as a RIP output filter.

*NORCV
Specifies that routes matching the Destination route (DEST) parameter and subnet mask (IPv4) / prefix length (IPv6) are going to be ignored in messages received over RIP interfaces. This option serves as a RIP input filter.

Top

Subnet mask (SUBNETMASK)

Specifies the subnet mask with respect to the network range specified for the Destination route (DEST) parameter. If this value is not set, the default subnet mask is 255.255.255.255 (*HOST), meaning apply the filter to the DEST parameter as was set. Setting the subnet mask has no meaning and is not valid, if the DEST parameter is set as an asterisk (*) for a blackhole filter.

This parameter is required, when the Destination route (DEST) parameter is an IPv4 address.

*HOST
The subnet mask value used will be 255.255.255.255.

character-value
Specify the mask for the network subnet field and host address field of the internet address that defines a subnetwork. The subnet mask is in the form nnn.nnn.nnn.nnn, where nnn is a decimal number ranging from 0 through 255. The subnet mask must mask off all bits of the network class's network ID portion of the internet address.
For example, 255.255.255.0 could define a subnet mask for an interface with a Class B internet address. In this example, the first two octets must be 1 bits because these octets define the network ID portion of the Class B internet address. The third octet of this subnet mask defines the actual subnet mask ID portion of the interface's internet address. It is also all 1 bits. This leaves the fourth octet to define the host ID portion of the interface's internet address.

Top

Prefix length (PFXLEN)

Specifies how much of the leftmost portion of an IPv6 address is the subnet prefix. If not set, the default prefix length is 128, meaning apply the filter to the Destination route (DEST) parameter as was set. Setting the prefix length has no meaning and is not valid if the DEST parameter is set as an asterisk (*) for a blackhole filter.

This parameter is required, when the Destination route (DEST) parameter is an IPv6 address.

128
The default is 128, which means the DEST parameter specified is a host address.

1-128
Specify the number of bits of the IPv6 internet address to use as the subnet prefix.

Top

Examples

Example 1:Adding a RIP Filter

ADDRIPFLT DEST('9.67.107.7') TYPE(*NOSND) SUBNETMASK(255.255.255.0)

This command adds an output filter route to the network 9.67.107.0.

Example 2:Adding a RIPng (IPv6) Filter

ADDRIPFLT DEST('1000:5678:9abc:def::E609') TYPE(*NORCV) PFXLEN(64)

This command adds an input filter route to the IPv6 network 1000:5678:9ABC:DEF::0000.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

TCP8050
*IOSYSCFG authority required to use &1.

TCP6584
Internet address &1 not valid for parameter &2.

TCP6589
Internet address version 6 &1 not valid for parameter &2.

TCP65A7
The subnet mask value &1 is not valid.

TCP65A8
The combination of filter type &1, address &2 and subnet mask &3 already exists in the RIP configuration file.

TCP65AB
The prefix length value &1 is not valid.

TCP65AC
The combination of filter type &1, address &2 and prefix length &3 already exists in the RIP configuration file.

TCP9999
Internal system error in program &1.

Top