Application servers

Application servers

Last Updated: 2025-10-07

An activation group must be connected to the application
server of a database manager before SQL statements can be executed.

A connection is an association between an activation group
and a local or remote application server. A connection is also known
as a session or an SQL session. Connections are managed by the application.
The CONNECT statement can be used to establish a connection to an
application server and make that application server the current server
of the activation group.

An implicit CONNECT operation may also establish
a connection to the application server:

- An implicit CONNECT operation may occur when invoking a program, service program, or the STRSQL
command. The application server is determined by the RDB parameter on the CRTSQLxxx and STRSQL
commands.An implicit CONNECT operation will not occur if an implicit or explicit CONNECT
operation has already successfully or unsuccessfully occurred in the activation group. Thus, an
activation group cannot be implicitly connected to an application server more than once.

- An implicit CONNECT operation may occur when using a three-part object name or an alias that is
defined to reference a three-part name of a table or view.An implicit CONNECT operation is only
allowed if all the objects referenced in the SQL statement refer to the same relational database.
The only exceptions are:
The target table of an INSERT statement may be in one relational database and the
tables referenced in the select-statement of the INSERT may be in another relational
database.

The new table for a CREATE TABLE or DECLARE GLOBAL TEMPORARY TABLE statement may be
in one relational database and the tables referenced in the select-statement may be in
another relational database.

The implicit CONNECT changes the current server for the statement. At the end of the
statement the connection is set back to the prior current server.

- When creating three-part qualified SQL stored procedures
or SQL functions, objects in the procedure body must exist on both
the DRDA client and DRDA server. If the procedure
body objects do not exist, object not found errors may be signaled.

An application server can be local to, or remote from, the environment where the activation group is started. (An application server is present, even when distributed relational databases are not used.) This environment includes a local directory that describes the application servers that can be identified in a CONNECT statement. For more information about the directory, see the Databases information found in IBM® i Access Client Solutions (ACS) Schemas, or the directory commands (ADDRDBDIRE, CHGRDBDIRE, DSPRDBDIRE, RMVRDBDIRE, and WRKRDBDIRE) in the following IBM i documentation topics:

- SQL
Programming

- Distributed
Database Programming

- CL
commands

To execute a static SQL statement that references tables or views,
an application server uses the bound form of the statement. This bound
statement is taken from a package that the database manager previously
created through a bind operation. The appropriate package is determined
by the combination of:

- The name of the package specified by the SQLPKG parameter on the
CRTSQLxxx commands. See Embedded SQL Programming for
a description of the CRTSQLxxx commands.

- The internal consistency token that makes certain the package
and program were created from the same source at the same time.

When a static SQL statement uses an alias to reference a remote object, the alias
is resolved and bound into the SQL package when the package is created on the other system. If the
alias changes to resolve to a different object, the package will not be aware of the change. To
allow the alias to change its target object, a dynamic SQL statement must be used.

A Db2® relational database product may support a feature
that is not supported by the version of the Db2 product that
is connecting to the application server. Some of these features are product-specific, and some are
shared by more than one product.

For the most part, an application can use the statements and clauses
that are supported by the database manager of the application server
to which it is currently connected, even though that application is
running via the application requester of a database manager that does
not support some of those statements and clauses. Restrictions are
listed in Characteristics of SQL statements.