Locking, commit, and rollback

Locking, commit, and rollbackLast Updated: 2025-10-07

Application processes and activation groups that use different
commitment definitions can request access to the same data at the
same time. Locking is used to maintain data integrity under
such conditions. Locking prevents such things as two application processes
updating the same row of data simultaneously.

The database manager acquires locks to keep the uncommitted changes
of one activation group undetected by activation groups that use a
different commitment definition. Object locks and other resources
are allocated to an activation group. Row locks are allocated to a
commitment definition.

When an activation group other than the default activation group
ends normally, the database manager releases all locks obtained
by the activation group. A user can also explicitly request that most
locks be released sooner. This operation is called commit.
Object locks associated with cursors that remain open after commit
are not released.

The
recovery functions of the database manager provide a means of backing
out of uncommitted changes made in a commitment definition. The database
manager may implicitly back out uncommitted changes under the following
situations:

When the application process ends, all changes performed under
the commitment definition associated with the default activation group
are backed out. When an activation group other than the default activation
group ends abnormally, all changes performed under the commitment
definition associated with that activation group are backed out.

When using Distributed Unit of Work and a failure occurs while
attempting to commit changes on a remote system, all changes performed
under the commitment definition associated with remote connection
are backed out.

When using Distributed Unit of Work and a request to back out
is received from a remote system because of a failure at that site,
all changes performed under the commitment definition associated with
remote connection are backed out.

A user can also explicitly request that their database changes
be backed out. This operation is called rollback.

Locks acquired by the database manager on behalf of an activation
group are held until the unit of work is ended. A lock explicitly
acquired by a LOCK TABLE statement can be held past the end of a unit
of work if COMMIT HOLD or ROLLBACK HOLD is used to end the unit of
work.

A cursor can implicitly lock the row at which the cursor is positioned.
This lock prevents:

Other cursors associated with a different commitment definition
from locking the same row.

A DELETE or UPDATE statement associated with a different commitment
definition from locking the same row.