Isolation level

Isolation levelLast Updated: 2025-10-07

The isolation level used during the execution of
SQL statements determines the degree to which the activation group
is isolated from concurrently executing activation groups.

Thus, when activation group P executes an SQL statement, the isolation
level determines:

The degree to which rows retrieved by P and database changes made
by P are available to other concurrently executing activation groups.

The degree to which database changes made by concurrently executing
activation groups can affect P.

The isolation level can be explicitly specified on a DELETE, INSERT,
SELECT INTO, UPDATE, or select-statement. If the isolation level is
not explicitly specified, the isolation level used when the SQL statement
is executed is the default isolation level.

Db2 for
i provides
several ways to specify the default isolation level:
Table 1. Default Isolation Level
Interfaces

SQL Interface

Specification

Embedded SQL

COMMIT parameter on the Create SQL
Program (CRTSQLxxx) commands. The SET OPTION statement can also be
used to set the COMMIT values.
(For more information
about CRTSQLxxx commands, see Embedded SQL Programming.)

SQL functions and procedures

Static SQL statements in SQL functions
and procedures use the isolation level that was in effect at the time
the SQL function or procedure was created. The SET OPTION statement
(COMMIT) can be used to set the isolation level.

Run SQL Statements

COMMIT parameter on the Run SQL Statements
(RUNSQLSTM) command.
(For more information about the
RUNSQLSTM command, see SQL Programming.)

SET TRANSACTION SQL statement

Overrides the default isolation level
within a unit of work. When the unit of work ends, the isolation level
returns to the value it had at the beginning of the unit of work.
This statement overrides any other specification of isolation level
for static and dynamic SQL statements in the unit of work.
(For
more information about the SET TRANSACTION statement, see SET TRANSACTION.)

isolation-clause

The isolation-clause on the SELECT, SELECT INTO, INSERT,
UPDATE, DELETE, MERGE, and DECLARE CURSOR statements overrides the default isolation level for a
specific statement or cursor. The isolation level is in effect only for the execution of the
statement containing the isolation-clause and has no effect on any pending changes in the
current unit of work.
(For more information about the isolation-clause, see isolation-clause.)

Call Level Interface (CLI) on the
server

SQL_ATTR_COMMIT or SQL_TXN_ISOLATION
environment variable or connection options
(For more
information about CLI, see SQL Call Level Interfaces
(ODBC).)

JDBC or SQLJ on the server using IBM® IBM Developer
Kit for Java™

transaction isolation property object
(For
more information about JDBC and SQLJ, see IBM Developer Kit for Java.)

ODBC on a client using the IBM i
Access Family ODBC Driver

Commit Mode in ODBC Setup
(For
more information about ODBC, see IBM i
Access.)

JDBC on a client using the IBM Toolbox
for Java

Isolation Level in JDBC Setup
(For
more information about JDBC, see IBM i
Access.)
(For
more information about the IBM Toolbox
for Java, see IBM Toolbox for Java.)

OLE DB on a client using the IBM i
Access Family OLE DB Provider

IsolationLevel Connection Object
Property
(For more information about OLE DB, see IBM i
Access.)

ADO .NET on a client using the IBM i
Access Family ADO .NET Provider

IsolationLevel in Connection Object
Properties
(For more information about ADO .NET, see IBM i
Access.)

These isolation levels are supported by automatically locking the
appropriate data. Depending on the type of lock, this limits or prevents
access to the data by concurrent activation groups that use different
commitment definitions. Each database manager supports at least two
types of locks:

Share

Limits concurrent activation groups that use different
commitment definitions to read-only operations on the data.

Exclusive

Prevents concurrent activation groups using different
commitment definitions from updating or deleting the data. Prevents
concurrent activation groups using different commitment definitions
that are running COMMIT(*RS), COMMIT(*CS), or COMMIT(*RR) from reading
the data. Concurrent activation groups using different commitment
definitions that are running COMMIT(*UR) or COMMIT(*NC) are allowed
to read the data.

The following descriptions of isolation levels refer to locking
data in row units. Individual implementations can lock data in larger
physical units than base table rows. However, logically, locking occurs
at the base-table row level across all products. Similarly, a database
manager can escalate a lock to a higher level. An activation group
is guaranteed at least the minimum requested lock level.

For a detailed description of record lock durations, see the discussion
and table in the Commitment control topic of the SQL Programming topic
collection.

Db2 for
i supports
five isolation levels. For all isolation levels except No Commit,
the database manager places exclusive locks on every row that is inserted,
updated, or deleted. This ensures that any row changed during a unit
of work is not changed by any other activation group that uses a different
commitment definition until the unit of work is complete.