Remove Admin Domain Node Entry (RMVCADNODE)

Remove Admin Domain Node Entry (RMVCADNODE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: Yes | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Remove Cluster Admin Domain Node Entry (RMVCADNODE) command is used to remove a node from the domain node list of a cluster administrative domain. The node being removed does not need to be active in the cluster. When the node is removed from the domain node list, the cluster administrative domain object is deleted from that system and all monitored resource entries (MREs) are removed. System objects represented by MREs are not deleted on the node being removed from the domain.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority on all nodes in the recovery domain to run this command.

- Cluster Resource Services must be started on the node processing the request.

- At least one node in the domain node list must be active.

- The last node in the domain node list cannot be removed if the cluster administrative domain status is Active.

- At least one node must remain active in the domain node list of the cluster administrative domain after the successful completion of the remove operation.

- The cluster resource group CRG is owned by the QCLUSTER user profile. To use the cluster resource group commands with the cluster administrative domain you will need to be authorized to the cluster resource group and to the QCLUSTER user profile.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
NODE | Node identifier | Name | Required, Positional 1
ADMDMN | Cluster administrative domain | Name, * | Optional
CLUSTER | Cluster | Name, * | Optional

Top

Node identifier (NODE)

Specifies the node that is to be removed from the domain node list of the cluster administrative domain.

This is a required parameter.

name
Specify the name of the node that is to be removed.

Top

Cluster administrative domain (ADMDMN)

Specifies the cluster administrative domain from which the node will be removed.

*
The name of the cluster administrative domain that local cluster node is part of is used.

name
Specify the name of the cluster administrative domain.

Top

Cluster (CLUSTER)

Specifies the name of the cluster.

*
The cluster that has been configured on this system is used.

name
Specify the name of the cluster.

Top

Examples for RMVCADNODE

RMVCADNODE NODE(RCHCST03) ADMDMN(MYDOMAIN)

This command removes node RCHCST03 from the domain node list of cluster administrative domain MYDOMAIN.

Top

Error messages for RMVCADNODE

*ESCAPE Messages

HAE0008
Node &1 not removed from cluster administrative domain &2.

Top