Trace TCP/IP Route (TRCTCPRTE)

Trace TCP/IP Route (TRCTCPRTE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Trace TCP/IP Route (TRCTCPRTE) command, also known as TRACEROUTE, traces the route of IP packets to a user-specified destination system. The route can involve many different systems along the way. Each system along the route is referred to as a hop. You can trace all hops along the route or specify the starting and ending hops to be traced.

The route is traced by sending packets (called probes) to the destination system. Each probe contains an upper limit (called Time To Live or TTL) on the number of hop systems the probe can pass through.

Note: In IP Version 6, Time To Live (TTL) is called the hop limit.

A route is traced by successively incrementing the TTL of the probe packets by one hop. The trace ends when either a probe response is received from the destination system or when the probe Time To Live value equals the maximum allowed.

Responses from the probe packets are sent as messages to the job log or as queue entries to a user-specified data queue.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
RMTSYS | Remote system | Character value | Required, Positional 1
RANGE | Range of hops to probe | Element list | Optional
Element 1: Starting probe TTL (hop limit) | 1-255, 1
Element 2: Maximum probe TTL (hop limit) | 1-255, 30
PROBES | Probes sent per hop | 1-64, 3 | Optional
WAITTIME | Response wait time | 1-120, 3 | Optional
PKTLEN | Packet length (in bytes) | 40-65535, 40 | Optional
OUTPUT | Output | *MSG, *VERBOSE, *DTAQ | Optional
DTAQ | Data queue | Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Data queue | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *CURLIB, *LIBL
ADRVERFMT | Address version format | *CALC, *IP4, *IP6 | Optional
LCLINTNETA | Source IP address | Character value, *ANY | Optional
RMTPORT | Base remote port | 1-65535, 33434 | Optional
NAMELOOKUP | Lookup host names | *YES, *NO | Optional
PROBEPCL | Probing protocol | *ICMP, *UDP | Optional
FRAGMENT | Allow fragmentation | *TCPA, *NO, *YES | Optional

Top

Remote system (RMTSYS)

Specifies the remote system name (255 characters) or IP address of the destination system.

character-value
Specify the remote system name or IP address. Either a valid IP Version 4 or IP Version 6 address will be accepted.

Top

Range of hops to probe (RANGE)

Specifies the range of hop systems from which probe responses are expected. Each probe specifies a TTL (Time To Live) integer value. This TTL value is the maximum number of hops the probe can traverse. For example, a probe packet with a TTL of 3 can pass through at most 3 hop systems before the hop system discards the probe and sends information back to the system from which the probe originated.

Element 1 specifies the first TTL value sent in probe packets. Element 2 specifies the last TTL value sent in probe packets. Trace information is generated from each hop system which discards a probe packet because the TTL value in the probe is reached or when the destination system is reached.

Element 1: Starting probe TTL (hop limit)

1
The default starting hop is 1.

1-255
Specify the first hop limit TTL number used for probe packets.

Element 2: Maximum probe TTL (hop limit)

30
The default ending hop is 30.

1-255
Specify the maximum number of hops a probe can traverse to reach the destination system.

Top

Probes sent per hop (PROBES)

Specifies the number of probe packets sent to each hop system for each probe TTL (hop limit) value in the range specified by the RANGE parameter.

3
The default number of probes is three.

1-64
Specify the number of probes to send.

Top

Response wait time (WAITTIME)

Specifies the maximum time, in seconds, to wait for a response from a hop system to each probe.

3
Wait up to 3 seconds for a response.

1-120
Specify the maximum number of seconds to wait for a response.

Top

Packet length (in bytes) (PKTLEN)

Specifies the total length, in bytes, of the IP packet sent for each probe.

40
The probe packet length is 40 bytes.

40-65535
Specify the number of bytes in the probe IP packet.

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies where the results obtained from sending the probe packets is sent. Information is sent for each hop until the destination system is reached, including hop count, average round-trip time, IP address of the hop and host name of the hop.

*MSG
Results are output as messages sent to the job log of the job in which the command is issued.

*VERBOSE
Results are output as messages sent to the job log of the job in which the command is issued. All responses received are displayed. Results are not limited to ICMP TIME_EXCEEDED and PORT_UNREACHABLE responses.

*DTAQ
Results from probes are placed on the data queue specified by the Data Queue (DTAQ) parameter.

Top

Data queue (DTAQ)

Specifies the data queue on which entries are placed. When a data queue is specified, messages are not sent to the job log unless an error occurs.

Each queue entry contains the response to a probe if one was received or indicates that no probe response was received. The specified data queue must have a queue entry length of at least 33 characters and must exist when this command is issued.

Qualifier 1: Data queue

name
Specify the name of the data queue.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the job's library list are searched.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is searched. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, the QGPL library is used.

name
Specify the name of the library to search.

Top

Address version format (ADRVERFMT)

Specifies how the host name specified for the Remote system (RMTSYS) parameter is to be resolved.

*CALC
The host name resolution method will be 'calculated' (determined) based on the host name entered in the RMTSYS parameter. TRCTCPRTE (TRACEROUTE) will first use IP Version 4 host name resolution in determining the IP address. If that fails, IP Version 6 host name resolution is used in determining the IP address.

*IP4
Use the IP Version 4 host name resolution method.

*IP6
Use the IP Version 6 host name resolution method.

Top

Source IP address (LCLINTNETA)

Specifies how the source IP address in the probe packet is chosen.

*ANY
The source IP address in the probe packets is chosen by the system. The system may use any active local interface which can reach the remote system.

character-value
Specify the local interface to use as the source IP address.

Top

Base remote port (RMTPORT)

Specifies the base UDP port number used in probes.

33434
Use the default base UDP port number of 33434.

1-65535
Specify the base UDP port number to be used in probes.

Top

Lookup host names (NAMELOOKUP)

Specifies whether IP addresses will be resolved to the host name.

*YES
The address will be resolved to the host name.

*NO
The address will not be resolved to the host name.

Top

Probing protocol (PROBEPCL)

Specifies the protocol used when sending probe packets.

*ICMP
The probes sent to the destination system are ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol) Echo Request packets.

*UDP
The probes sent to the destination system are UDP (User Datagram Protocol) packets.

Top

Allow fragmentation (FRAGMENT)

Specifies how the setting of the "Do Not Fragment" option in the IP header of the probe packet is determined.

*TCPA
The system sets the option based on the setting of the IP Path MTU Discovery TCP/IP attribute.

Note: Use the Change TCP/IP Attributes (CHGTCPA) command to change the value of this attribute.

*NO
The "Do Not Fragment" option is always specified.

*YES
The "Do Not Fragment" option is never specified.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Trace Entire Route

TRCTCPRTE RMTSYS('130.14.3.5')

This command traces the entire route between the local system and the destination system whose IP address is '130.14.3.5'. Three probe packets will be sent to each hop system. Each IP probe packet will be 40 bytes long and will contain an ICMP Echo Request packet. Results received are sent as messages to the job log.

Example 2: Trace Partial Route

TRCTCPRTE RMTSYS('AAA.BBBB.COM') RANGE(3 7)
PROBES(5) PROBEPCL(*UDP)
OUTPUT(*DTAQ) DTAQ(MYLIB/MYDATAQ)

This command traces the route between the local system and the destination system whose host name is 'AAA.BBBB.COM'. Five probe packets will be sent for the starting range value of 3. Each probe will be a UDP packet inside an IP packet that is 40 bytes long. Each of these 5 probes will specify a TTL of 3. If system AAA.BBB.COM can be reached by passing through at most 2 hop systems then the trace will terminate at this point.

If system AAA.BBB.COM is futher than 2 hops, another set of 5 probe packets will be sent to the destination AAA.BBB.COM. Each of these 5 probes will specify a TTL of 4. This is repeated until either system AAA.BBB.COM responds to a probe or 5 probes with a TTL of 7, the ending range value, are sent. Any results received are placed as queue entries on data queue MYDATAQ in library MYLIB.

Example 3: Trace Route with an IP Version 6 Address

TRCTCPRTE RMTSYS('1:2:3:4:5:6:7:8')

This command traces the entire route between the local system and the destination system whose IP address is 1:2:3:4:5:6:7:8. Three probe packets will be sent to each hop system. Each IP probe packet will be 40 bytes long and will contain an ICMP6 Echo Request packet. Results received are sent as messages to the job log.

Note: A colon character ( : ) found in the parameter value signifies an IP Version 6 address and will cause an ICMP6 echo request packet to be generated.

Example 4: Trace Route with an IP Version 6 Host Name

TRCTCPRTE RMTSYS('IP6HOST')

This command traces the entire route between the local system and the destination system whose host name is 'IP6HOST'. Three probe packets will be sent to each hop system. Each IP probe packet will be 40 bytes long and will contain an ICMP6 Echo Request packet. Results received are sent as messages to the job log.

The default "Address version format" is *CALC. Host name resolution may return multiple IP addresses for a given host name. But, in the case (*CALC), the first IP address (IP Version 4 or IP Version 6) resolved will be the address used when attempting to trace the route.

Example 5: Trace Route with an IP Version 6 Host Name and Explicitly Use IP Version 6 Host Name Resolution

TRCTCPRTE RMTSYS('IP6HOST') ADRVERFMT(*IP6)

This command traces the entire route between the local system and the destination system whose host name is 'IP6HOST'. Three probe packets will be sent to each hop system. Each IP probe packet will be 40 bytes long and will contain an ICMP6 Echo Request packet. Results received are sent as messages to the job log.

This example differs from example 4 in that only a valid IP version 6 resolved address, for IP6HOST, will be used when attempting to trace the route.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

TCP3250
DTAQ parameter value required with OUTPUT(*DTAQ).

TCP3251
DTAQ parameter not valid when OUTPUT(*MSG) specified.

TCP3252
Starting range value greater than range limit.

Top