DUPLEX (Duplex) keyword in printer files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

DUPLEX (Duplex) keyword in printer files

You use this record-level keyword to specify
whether output is printed on one side or two sides of the paper.

The format of the keyword is:
DUPLEX(duplex-value | &duplex-value) The
possible values are:

*NO

The output is printed on one side of the paper.

*YES

The output is printed on both sides of the paper, with the top of each
printed page at the same end of the sheet of paper. This is typically done
for output that is bound at the side.

*TUMBLE

The output is printed on both sides of the paper, with the top of one
printed page at the opposite end from the top of the other printed page. This
is typically done for output that is bound at the top.

You can specify the duplex value as a constant or program-to-system
field. When you specify the duplex value as a program-to-system field, the
field must exist in the same record format as the DUPLEX keyword. The field
must be defined as length 7 and type A (character), and usage P (program-to-system).
Specify
DEVTYPE(*AFPDS) on the CRTPRTF command when DUPLEX is specified in the file.
If DEVTYPE is changed to anything other than *AFPDS, the keyword is ignored
and a warning message is issued at print time.
If currently printing
on the front side of the sheet, the current sheet will be ejected and a new
sheet fed in. If you do not specify the DUPLEX keyword, the value specified
on the DUPLEX parameter on the CRTPRTF, CHGPRTF, or OVRPRTF command determines
the duplex value.
DUPLEX is ignored at run time if it
is not specified on a page boundary. The printer is on a page boundary when
no named or constant fields are processed for a page. After a named or constant
field is processed, the printer is no longer on a page boundary. The printer
is on a page boundary again when a SKIP, SPACE, ENDPAGE, or INVMMAP keyword
is processed that causes the printer to move to a new page, DUPLEX, SKIP,
and SPACE keywords are processed in the following order:
SKIPB
SPACEB
DUPLEX
SPACEA
SKIPA DUPLEX is in effect only for the record
format specified. After records with the specified record format are processed,
the duplex value for the next record format (if the DUPLEX keyword is not
specified) is the duplex specified at the file level (CRTPRTF, CHGPRTF, or
OVRPRTF) command.
Option indicators are valid for this keyword.
Note: Use
of this DDS keyword will cause a spooled file to be generated that will not
be correctly printed when sending the spooled file to MVS™. The spooled file with not print and
will be held on the output queue by Print Services Facility (PSF)/MVS.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the DUPLEX keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A*
A R REC1 DUPLEX(*YES)
A FLD1 5A 60 10
A*Duplex printing is selected when record format REC1
prints.