Device

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Environment Division > Input-Output Section > ASSIGN Clause > ASSIGN Clause

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Environment Division > Input-Output Section > ASSIGN Clause

Device
This part specifies the type of device that the file will use.
The compiler can then check whether the file is described and used
in a consistent manner. See the IBM Rational® Development Studio for i: ILE COBOL
Programmer's Guide for further information. Note: The compiler does not check whether the device associated with
the external file is of the type specified in the device portion of
assignment-name-1 or literal-1.
The compiler provides no diagnostics unless the I-O verbs were
used in an inconsistent manner.
When the program runs, the operating system could either issue
an escape message or ignore the function if it was not applicable
to the device. For further information on overriding files, refer
to the File Systems and Management section of the Database
and File Systems category in the IBM® i
Information Center at this
Web site - http://www.ibm.com/systems/i/infocenter/.

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension The device that the file will use can be
changed at run time with the OVRxxxF CL command. To ensure consistent
results, the device type associated with the file should correspond
to that given in the assignment-name. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension Device can be any of the following: Device
Associated file
PRINTER
PRINTER should be specified for program described printer files
only.
FORMATFILE
FORMATFILE should be specified for externally described printer
files only. For more information on how to use externally described
printer files see the section on FORMATFILE files in the IBM Rational Development Studio
for i: ILE COBOL Programmer's Guide.
TAPEFILE
Tape file
DISKETTE
Diskette file
DISK
Any physical database file or single format logical database file.
When DISK is the device, database extensions cannot be used, but dynamic
file creation is supported. See the IBM Rational Development Studio for i: ILE COBOL
Programmer's Guide for more information about DISK files. See OPEN Statement Considerations for information about Dynamic
File Creation.
DATABASE
Any database file (or DDM file). When DATABASE is the device,
externally described data and database extensions can be used, but
dynamic file creation is not supported.
WORKSTATION
Display file or ICF file.

Parent topic: ASSIGN Clause