Triggers

Triggers

Last Updated: 2025-10-07

A trigger defines a set of actions that are executed
automatically whenever a delete, insert, or update operation occurs
on a specified table or view. When such an SQL operation is executed,
the trigger is said to be activated.

The set of actions can include almost any operation allowed on
the system. A few operations are not allowed, such as:

- Commit or rollback (if the same commitment definition is used
for the trigger actions and the triggering event)

- CONNECT, SET CONNECTION, DISCONNECT, and RELEASE statements

- SET SESSION AUTHORIZATION

For a complete list of restrictions, see CREATE TRIGGER and the Database Programming book.

Triggers can be used along with referential constraints and check
constraints to enforce data integrity rules. Triggers are more powerful
than constraints because they can also be used to cause updates to
other tables, automatically generate or transform values for inserted
or updated rows, or invoke functions that perform operations both
inside and outside of database manager. For example, instead of preventing
an update to a column if the new value exceeds a certain amount, a
trigger can substitute a valid value and send a notice to an administrator
about the invalid update.

Triggers are a useful mechanism to define and enforce transitional
business rules that involve different states of the data (for example,
salary cannot be increased by more than 10 percent). Such a limit
requires comparing the value of a salary before and after an increase.
For rules that do not involve more than one state of the data, consider
using referential and check constraints.

Triggers also move the application logic that is required to enforce
business rules into the database, which can result in faster application
development and easier maintenance because the business rule is no
longer repeated in several applications, but one version is centralized
to the trigger. With the logic in the database, for example, the previously
mentioned limit on increases to the salary column of a table, database
manager checks the validity of the changes that any application makes
to the salary column. In addition, the application programs do not
need to be changed when the logic changes.

For more information about creating triggers, see CREATE TRIGGER. 1

Triggers are optional and are defined using the CREATE TRIGGER
statement or the Add Physical File Trigger (ADDPFTRG) CL
command. Triggers are dropped using the DROP TRIGGER statement or
the Remove Physical File Trigger (RMVPFTRG) CL
command. For more information about creating triggers, see the CREATE
TRIGGER statement. For more information about triggers in general,
see the CREATE TRIGGER statement or the SQL Programming and
the Database
Programming books.

There are a number of criteria that are defined when creating a
trigger which are used to determine when a trigger should be activated.

- The subject table
(also known as the triggering table) defines the table or view for which the
trigger is defined.

- The trigger event defines a specific SQL operation that
modifies the subject table. The operation could be delete, insert,
or update.

- The trigger activation time defines whether the trigger
should be activated before or after the trigger event is performed
on the subject table.

The statement that causes a trigger to be activated will include
a set of affected rows. These are the rows of the subject table
that are being deleted, inserted or updated. The trigger granularity defines
whether the actions of the trigger will be performed once for the
statement or once for each of the rows in the set of affected rows.

The trigger action consists of an optional search condition
and a set of SQL statements that are executed whenever the trigger
is activated. The SQL statements are only executed if no search condition
is specified or the specified search condition evaluates to true.

The triggered action may refer to the values in the set of affected
rows. This is supported through the use of transition variables.
Transition variables use the names of the columns in the subject table
qualified by a specified name that identifies whether the reference
is to the old value (prior to the update) or the new value (after
the update). The new value can also be changed using the SET transition-variable
statement in before update or insert triggers. Another means of referring
to the values in the set of affected rows is using transition tables.
Transition tables also use the names of the columns of the subject
table but have a name specified that allows the complete set of affected
rows to be treated as a table. Transition tables can only be used
in after triggers. Separate transition tables can be defined for old
and new values.

Multiple triggers can be specified for a combination of table,
event, or activation time. The order in which the triggers are activated
is the same as the order in which they were created. Thus, the most
recently created trigger will be the last trigger activated.

The activation of a trigger may cause trigger cascading.
This is the result of the activation of one trigger that executes
SQL statements that cause the activation of other triggers or even
the same trigger again. The triggered actions may also cause updates
as a result of the original modification, which may result in the
activation of additional triggers. With trigger cascading, a significant
chain of triggers may be activated causing significant change to the
database as a result of a single delete, insert or update statement.

The actions performed in the trigger are considered to be part
of the operation that caused the trigger to be executed. Thus, when
the isolation level is anything other than NC (No Commit) and the
trigger actions are performed using the same commitment definition
as the trigger event:

- The database manager ensures that the operation and the triggers
executed as a result of that operation either all complete or are
backed out. Operations that occurred prior to the triggering operation
are not affected.

- The database manager effectively checks all constraints (except
for a constraint with a RESTRICT delete rule) after the operation
and the associated triggers have been executed.

A trigger has an attribute that specifies whether it is allowed
to delete or update a row that has already been inserted or updated
within the SQL statement that caused the trigger to be executed.

- If ALWREPCHG(*YES) is specified when the trigger is defined, then
within an SQL statement:
The trigger is allowed to update or delete any row that was inserted
or already updated by that same SQL statement. This also includes
any rows inserted or updated by a trigger or referential constraint
caused by the same SQL statement.

- If ALWREPCHG(*NO) is specified when the trigger is defined, then
within an SQL statement:
A row can be deleted by a trigger only if that row has not been
inserted or updated by that same SQL statement. If the isolation level
is anything other than NC (No Commit) and the trigger actions are
performed using the same commitment definition as the trigger event,
this also includes any inserts or updates by a trigger or referential
constraint caused by the same SQL statement.

A row can be updated by a trigger only if that row has not already
been inserted or updated by that same SQL statement. If the isolation
level is anything other than NC (No Commit) and the trigger actions
are performed using the same commitment definition as the trigger
event, this also includes any inserts or updates by a trigger or referential
constraint caused by the same SQL statement.

All triggers created by using the CREATE TRIGGER statement implicitly
have the ALWREPCHG(*YES) attribute.

1 The ADDPFTRG CL command also
defines a trigger, including triggers that are activated on any read
operation.