Restore Authority using BRM (RSTAUTBRM)

Restore Authority using BRM (RSTAUTBRM)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Restore Authority using BRM (RSTAUTBRM) command reestablishes the object owner, primary group and authorization list names for objects on basic user auxiliary storage pools (2-32) if this information was saved.

This information is saved unless it was explicitly omitted from the save by specifying *USRASPAUT as the omit for either a *SAVSYS or *SECDTA entry in the backup policy omit list.

To use this command, you must have the Backup Recovery and Media Services for IBM i licensed program installed.

Restrictions:

- The user profiles must be restored before using the RSTAUTBRM command.

- The libraries and objects on the saved user auxiliary storage pools must be restored before using the RSTAUTBRM command.

- This command does not replace the native RSTAUT command. RSTAUTBRM is used in addition to the RSTAUT command when restoring the authority information of saved user auxiliary storage pool objects during a system recovery.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
USRASP | Auxiliary storage pool | Values (up to 31 repetitions): Character value, *ALLUSR | Optional, Positional 1

Top

ASPs to restore (USRASP)

Specifies the basic user auxiliary storage pools (2-32) for which saved authority information is to be restored.

The libraries and objects must be restored to the basic user auxiliary storage pools before using the RSTAUTBRM command.

Note: A maximum of 31 values may be specified.

*ALLUSR
Saved authorization information is to be restored for objects that reside in all basic user auxiliary storage pools (2-32).

auxiliary-storage-pool-number
Specifies the number identifying a basic user auxiliary storage pool containing the objects for which saved authority information is restored.

auxiliary-storage-pool-name
Specifies the name identifying the basic user auxiliary storage pool containing the objects for which saved authority information is restored.

Top

Examples for RSTAUTBRM

Example 1: Restoring Saved Authority Information for All ASPs

RSTAUTBRM
-or-
RSTAUTBRM USRASP(*ALLUSR)

This command restores the owner profile, primary group, and authorization list names for objects contained in all basic user auxiliary storage pools (ASPs 2-32).

Example 2: Restoring Saved Authority Information for ASPs 2 and 3

RSTAUTBRM USRASP(2 3)

This command restores the owner profile, primary group, and authorization list names for objects contained in basic user auxiliary storage pools 2 and 3.

Top

Error messages for RSTAUTBRM

*ESCAPE Messages

BRM1917
Feature not installed.

BRM1921
Feature not licensed.

BRM4040
Access denied for user &1.

BRM40A2
BRMS product initialization required.

CPF9800
All CPF98xx messages could be signaled. xx is from 01 to FF.

Top