CREATE SEQUENCE

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

CREATE SEQUENCE
The CREATE SEQUENCE statement creates a sequence at the
application server.
InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared.
AuthorizationThe privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
The privilege to create in the schema. For more information, see Privileges necessary
to create in a schema.
Database administrator authority

The privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement
must include at least one of the following:
The following system authorities: *USE to the Create Data Area (CRTDTAARA) command

Database administrator authority

The privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement
must include at least one of the following:
For the SYSSEQOBJECTS catalog table: The INSERT privilege on the table, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on library QSYS2

Database administrator authority

If a distinct type is referenced, the privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
For the distinct type identified in the statement: The USAGE privilege on the distinct type, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the distinct
type

Database administrator authority

To replace an existing sequence, the privileges
held by the authorization ID of the statement must include at least
one of the following:
The following system authorities:The system authority of *OBJMGT on the data area associated with
the sequence
All authorities needed to DROP the sequence
The system authority *READ to the SYSSEQOBJECTS
catalog table

Database administrator authority

For information about the system authorities corresponding
to SQL privileges, see Corresponding System
Authorities When Checking Privileges to a Sequence and Corresponding System
Authorities When Checking Privileges to a Distinct Type.
SyntaxCREATEOR
REPLACESEQUENCEsequence-nameASINTEGERdata-typeSTART WITHnumeric-constantINCREMENT BY1numeric-constantNO MINVALUEMINVALUEnumeric-constantNO MAXVALUEMAXVALUEnumeric-constantNO CYCLECYCLECACHE20NO CACHECACHEinteger-constantNO ORDERORDER1
data-typebuilt-in-typedistinct-type-namebuilt-in-typeSMALLINTINTEGERINTBIGINTDECIMALDECNUMERICNUM(5,0)(integer,0)

Description OR REPLACE
Specifies
to replace the definition for the sequence if one exists at the current
server. The existing definition is effectively dropped before the
new definition is replaced in the catalog with the exception that
privileges that were granted on the sequence are not affected. This
option is ignored if a definition for the sequence does not exist
at the current server.
sequence-name
Names the sequence. The name, including the
implicit or explicit qualifier, must not identify a sequence or data
area that already exists at the current server. If a qualified sequence
name is specified, the schema-name cannot
be QSYS2, QSYS, or SYSIBM. If SQL names were specified, the sequence
will be created in the schema specified by the implicit or explicit
qualifier.
If system names were specified, the sequence will
be created in the schema that is specified by the qualifier. If not
qualified:
If the value of the CURRENT SCHEMA special register is *LIBL,
the sequence will be created in the current library (*CURLIB).
Otherwise, the sequence will be created in the current schema.

AS data-type
Specifies the data type to be used for the sequence value. The
data type can be any exact numeric type (SMALLINT, INTEGER, BIGINT,
DECIMAL, or NUMERIC) with a scale of zero, or a user-defined distinct
type for which the source type is an exact numeric type with a scale
of zero. The default is INTEGER.
built-in-type
Specifies
the built-in data type used as the basis for the internal representation
of the sequence. If the data type is DECIMAL or NUMERIC, the precision
must be less than or equal to 63 and the scale must be 0. See CREATE TABLE for a more complete description of
each built-in data type. For portability of applications across
platforms, use DECIMAL instead of a NUMERIC data type.

distinct-type-name
Specifies
that the data type of the sequence is a distinct type (a user-defined
data type). If the source type is DECIMAL or NUMERIC, the precision
of the sequence is the precision of the source type of the distinct
type. The precision of the source type must be less than or equal
to 63 and the scale must be 0. If a distinct type name is specified
without a schema name, the distinct type name is resolved by searching
the schemas on the SQL path.
START WITH numeric-constant
Specifies
the first value that is generated for the sequence. The value can
be any positive or negative value that could be assigned to a column
of the data type associated with the sequence, without non-zero digits
to the right of the decimal point. If a value is not explicitly
specified when the sequence is defined, the default is the MINVALUE
for an ascending sequence and the MAXVALUE for a descending sequence.
This
value is not necessarily the value that a sequence would cycle to
after reaching the maximum or minimum value of the sequence. The START
WITH clause can be used to start a sequence outside the range that
is used for cycles. The range used for cycles is defined by MINVALUE
and MAXVALUE.

INCREMENT BY numeric-constant
Specifies
the interval between consecutive values of the sequence. The value
can be any positive or negative value that could be assigned to a
column of the data type associated with the sequence, and does not
exceed the value of a large integer constant, without nonzero digits
existing to the right of the decimal point.If the value is 0 or
positive, this is an ascending sequence. If the value is negative,
this is a descending sequence. The default is 1.

NO MINVALUE or MINVALUE
Specifies
the minimum value at which a descending sequence either cycles or
stops generating values, or an ascending sequence cycles to after
reaching the maximum value. The default is NO MINVALUE. NO MINVALUE
For an ascending sequence, the value is the START WITH value,
or 1 if START WITH is not specified. For a descending sequence, the
value is the minimum value of the data type (and precision, if DECIMAL
or NUMERIC) associated with the sequence.
MINVALUE numeric-constant
Specifies the numeric constant that is the minimum value. This
value can be any positive or negative value that could be assigned
to a column of the data type associated with the sequence and without
non-zero digits to the right of the decimal point. The value must
be less than or equal to the maximum value.

NO MAXVALUE or MAXVALUE
Specifies
the maximum value at which an ascending sequence either cycles or
stops generating values, or a descending sequence cycles to after
reaching the minimum value. The default is NO MAXVALUE. NO MAXVALUE
For an ascending sequence, the value is the maximum value of the
data type (and precision, if DECIMAL or NUMERIC) associated with the
sequence. For a descending sequence, the value is the START WITH value,
or -1 if START WITH is not specified.
MAXVALUE numeric-constant
Specifies the numeric constant that is the maximum value. This
value can be any positive or negative value that could be assigned
to a column of the data type associated with the sequence and without
non-zero digits to the right of the decimal point. The value must
be greater than or equal to the minimum value.

NO CYCLE or CYCLE
Specifies
whether this sequence should continue to generate values once the
maximum or minimum value of the sequence has been reached. The default
is NO CYCLE. NO CYCLE
Specifies that values will not be generated for the sequence once
the maximum or minimum value for the sequence has been reached.
CYCLE
Specifies that values continue to be generated for this sequence
after the maximum or minimum value has been reached. If this option
is used, after an ascending sequence reaches the maximum value of
the sequence, it generates its minimum value. After a descending sequence
reaches its minimum value of the sequence, it generates its maximum
value. The maximum and minimum values for the column determine the
range that is used for cycling. When CYCLE is in effect, then duplicate
values can be generated for the sequence.

CACHE or NO CACHE
Specifies
whether to keep some preallocated values in memory. Preallocating
and storing values in the cache improves the performance of the NEXT
VALUE sequence expression. The default is CACHE 20. CACHE integer-constant
Specifies the maximum number of sequence values that are preallocated
and kept in memory. Preallocating and storing values in the cache
improves performance. In certain situations, such as system failure,
all cached sequence values that have not been used in committed statements
are lost, and thus, will never be used. The value specified for the
CACHE option is the maximum number of sequence values that could be
lost in these situations.
The minimum value that can be specified
is 2.

NO CACHE
Specifies that values for the sequence are not preallocated. If
NO CACHE is specified, the performance of the NEXT VALUE sequence
expression will be worse than if CACHE is specified.

ORDER or NO ORDER
Specifies
whether the sequence values must be generated in order of request.
The default is NO ORDER. NO ORDER
Specifies that the sequence numbers do not need to be generated
in order of request.
ORDER
Specifies that the sequence numbers are generated in order of
request. If ORDER is specified, the performance of the NEXT VALUE
sequence expression will be worse than if NO ORDER is specified.

NotesSequence
attributes: A sequence is created as a *DTAARA object. The *DTAARA
objects should not be changed with the Change Data Area (*CHGDTAARA)
or any other similar interface because doing so may cause unexpected
failures or unexpected results when attempting to use the SQL sequence
through SQL.
Sequence ownership: The owner of the sequence
is the user profile or group user profile of the thread executing
the statement.
Sequence authority: If SQL names are used, sequences
are created with the system authority of *EXCLUDE on *PUBLIC. If system
names are used, sequences are created with the authority to *PUBLIC
as determined by the create authority (CRTAUT) parameter of the schema.
If the owner of the sequence is a member of a group profile
(GRPPRF keyword) and group authority is specified (GRPAUT keyword),
that group profile will also have authority to the sequence.
REPLACE rules: When a sequence is recreated
by REPLACE:Any existing comment or label is discarded.
Authorized users are maintained. The object owner could change.
Current journal
auditing is preserved.

Relationship of MINVALUE and MAXVALUE: Typically,
MINVALUE will be less than MAXVALUE, but this is not required. MINVALUE
could be equal to MAXVALUE. If START WITH was the same value as MINVALUE
and MAXVALUE, and CYCLE is implicitly or explicitly specified, this
would be a constant sequence. In this case a request for the next
value appears to have no effect because all the values generated by
the sequence are in fact the same.
MINVALUE must not be greater than MAXVALUE
Defining constant sequences: It is possible to
define a sequence that would always return a constant value. This
could be done by specifying an INCREMENT value of zero and a START
WITH value that does not exceed MAXVALUE, or by specifying the same
value for START WITH, MINVALUE and MAXVALUE. For a constant sequence,
each time a NEXT VALUE expression is processed the same value is returned.
A constant sequence can be used as a numeric global variable. ALTER
SEQUENCE can be used to adjust the values that will be generated for
a constant sequence.
Defining sequences that cycle: A sequence can be
cycled manually by using the ALTER SEQUENCE statement. If NO CYCLE
is implicitly or explicitly specified, the sequence can be restarted
or extended using the ALTER SEQUENCE statement to cause values to
continue to be generated once the maximum or minimum value for the
sequence has been reached.
A sequence can be explicitly defined to cycle by specifying
the CYCLE keyword. Use the CYCLE option when defining a sequence to
indicate that the generated values should cycle once the boundary
is reached. When a sequence is defined to automatically cycle (for
example CYCLE was explicitly specified), then the maximum or minimum
value generated for a sequence may not be the actual MAXVALUE or MINVALUE
specified, if the increment is a value other than 1 or -1. For example,
the sequence defined with START WITH=1, INCREMENT=2, MAXVALUE=10 will
generate a maximum value of 9, and will not generate the value 10.
When defining a sequence with CYCLE, then any application
conversion tools (for converting applications from other vendor platforms
to DB2®) should also explicitly
specify MINVALUE, MAXVALUE and START WITH.
Caching sequence numbers: A range of sequence numbers
can be kept in memory for fast access. When an application accesses
a sequence that can allocate the next sequence number from the cache,
the sequence number allocation can happen quickly. However, if an
application accesses a sequence that cannot allocate the next sequence
number from the cache, the sequence number allocation will require
an update to the *DTAARA object.
Choosing a high value for CACHE allows faster access to
more successive sequence numbers. However, in the event of a failure,
all sequence values in the cache are lost. If the NO CACHE option
is used, the values of the sequence are not stored in the sequence
cache. In this case every access to the sequence requires an update
to the *DTAARA object. The choice of the value for CACHE should be
made keeping the trade-off between performance and application requirements
in mind.
Persistence of the most recently generated
sequence value: The database manager remembers the most recently
generated value for a sequence within the SQL-session, and returns
this value for a PREVIOUS VALUE expression specifying the sequence
name. The value persists until either the next value is generated
for the sequence, the sequence is dropped, altered, or replaced, or
until the end of the application session. The value is unaffected
by COMMIT and ROLLBACK statements.
PREVIOUS VALUE is defined to have a linear scope within
the application session. Therefore, in a nested application:
on entry to a nested function, procedure, or trigger, the nested
application inherits the most recently generated value for a sequence.
That is, specifying an invocation of a PREVIOUS VALUE expression in
a nested application will reflect sequence activity done in the invoking
application, routine, or trigger before entering the nested application.
An invocation of PREVIOUS VALUE expression in a nested application
results in an error if a NEXT VALUE expression for the specified sequence
had not yet been done in the invoking application, routine, or trigger.
on return from a function, procedure, or trigger, the invoking
application, routine or trigger will be affected by any sequence activity
in the function, procedure, or trigger. That is, an invocation of
PREVIOUS VALUE in the invoking application, routine, or trigger after
returning from the nested application will reflect any sequence activity
that occurred in the lower level applications.

Sequence journaling: When a sequence is created,
journaling may be automatically started.If a data area called QDFTJRN exists in the same schema that the
sequence is created into and the user is authorized to the data area,
journaling will be started to the journal named in the data area if
all the following are true:The identified schema for the table must not be QSYS, QSYS2, QRECOVERY,
QSPL, QRCL, QRPLOBJ, QGPL, QTEMP, SYSIBM, or any of the IASP equivalents
to these libraries.
The journal specified in the data area must exist and the user
must be authorized to start journaling to the journal.
The first 10 bytes of the data area must contain the name of the
schema in which to find the journal.
The second 10 bytes must contain the name of the journal.
The remaining bytes contain the object types being implicitly
journaled and the options that affect when implicit journaling is
performed. The object type must include the value *DTAARA or *ALL.
The value *NONE can be used to prevent journaling from being started.

For more information, see the Journal Management topic
collection.
If the sequence is created into a schema that has specified (using
the STRJRNLIB command) that journaling should implicitly be started.

Syntax alternatives: The following keywords are
synonyms supported for compatibility to prior releases of other DB2 products. These keywords are
non-standard and should not be used:
The keywords NOMINVALUE, NOMAXVALUE, NOCYCLE, NOCACHE, and NOORDER
can be used as synonyms for NO MINVALUE, NO MAXVALUE, NO CYCLE, NO
CACHE, and NO ORDER.
A comma can be used to separate multiple sequence options.

ExamplesCreate a sequence called ORG_SEQ
that starts at 1, increments by 1, does not cycle, and caches 24 values
at a time:
CREATE SEQUENCE ORG_SEQ
START WITH 1
INCREMENT BY 1
NO MAXVALUE
NO CYCLE
CACHE 24
The options START WITH 1, INCREMENT
1, NO MAXVALUE, and NO CYCLE are the values that would have been used
if they had not been explicitly specified.

Parent topic: Statements