Start Service Job (STRSRVJOB)

Start Service Job (STRSRVJOB)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Start Service Job (STRSRVJOB) command starts the remote service operation for a specified job (other than the job issuing the command) so that other service commands can be entered to service the specified job. Any dump, debug, and trace commands can be run in that job until service operation ends. Service operation continues until the End Service Job (ENDSRVJOB) command is run.

Restrictions:

- This command is shipped with exclude (*EXCLUDE) public authority and the QPGMR, QSYSOPR, QSRV, and QSRVBAS user profiles are shipped with private authorities to use this command.

- You must have use (*USE) authority to the user profile of the job being serviced.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
JOB | Job name | Qualified job name | Required, Positional 1
Qualifier 1: Job name | Name
Qualifier 2: User | Name
Qualifier 3: Number | 000000-999999
DUPJOBOPT | Duplicate job option | *SELECT, *MSG | Optional

Top

Job name (JOB)

Specifies the job to be serviced. If no job number is given, all of the jobs currently in the system are searched for the simple job name. If duplicates of the specified name are found, messages are sent to the user, and user name and job number must be specified. The job name entered cannot be the name of the job issuing the command.

This is a required parameter.

Qualifier 1: Job name

name
Specify the name of the job.

Qualifier 2: User

name
Specify the user name that identifies the user profile under which the job was run.

Qualifier 3: Number

000000-999999
Specify the system-assigned job number of the job to be serviced.

Top

Duplicate job option (DUPJOBOPT)

Specifies the action taken when duplicate jobs are found by this command.

*SELECT
The selection display is shown when duplicate jobs are found during an interactive session. Otherwise, an escape message is issued.

*MSG
An escape message is issued when duplicate jobs are found.

Top

Examples

STRSRVJOB JOB(ABCD)

This command starts the remote service operation so that any trace, debug, or dump commands entered in this job are applied to the job named ABCD.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF3501
Job is already being serviced, traced, or debugged.

CPF3520
Job not found.

CPF3524
More than one job with specified name found.

CPF3531
Job cannot be serviced.

CPF3536
Job completed and cannot be serviced.

CPF3549
Job &1/&2/&3 cannot be serviced.

CPF3676
Not authorized to service specified job.

CPF3909
Service command will not be processed.

CPF3918
Service request canceled.

CPF3938
Already servicing another job.

Top