Remove Directory Entry (RMVDIRE)

Remove Directory Entry (RMVDIRE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Remove Directory Entry (RMVDIRE) command allows you to remove a specific user entry from the system distribution directory. When a user ID and address is removed from the directory, it is also removed from any distribution lists. If a user ID and address has multiple descriptions associated with it, options exist to remove only a specific description or all descriptions.

If an *ANY user is removed and an *ANY *ANY directory entry exists, the user is not removed from the distribution lists but the description is changed to the *ANY *ANY description.

Restrictions:

- You must have security administrator (*SECADM) special authority.

- The user entry being removed must not have ownership of documents or folders in the local Document Interchange Architecture (DIA) library.

- If the user entry being removed has incoming distributions on its distribution queue and the remove request was submitted interactively, an inquiry message appears asking whether the mail should be removed. If the answer is no, the user entry is not removed from the directory. If the command was submitted in a batch program, the mail is not cleared and the user entry is not removed from the directory.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
USRID | User identifier | Element list | Required, Positional 1
Element 1: User ID | Character value
Element 2: Address | Character value
USRD | User description | Character value, *FIRST, *ALL | Optional
CMDCHRID | Command character identifier | Single values: *SYSVAL, *DEVD
Other values: Element list | Optional
Element 1: Graphic character set | Integer
Element 2: Code page | Integer

Top

User identifier (USRID)

Specifies the user ID and address for the user entry being removed. Both parts must be provided. A maximum of 8 characters can be entered for each field.

Top

User description (USRD)

Specifies the description associated with the user ID and address. Since more than one entry can exist in the directory for a specific user ID and address, the description fully defines the user entry being removed.

*FIRST
The first entry in the directory for the specified user ID and address is removed. If only one entry exists, it is removed.

*ALL
All descriptions for the given user ID and address are removed and the user ID and address is removed.

user-description
Specify a maximum of 50 characters for the description for the user. This must exactly match the description as it exists in the directory for this user ID and address to be removed, or an error message is returned.

Top

Command character identifier (CMDCHRID)

Specifies the character identifier (graphic character set and code page) for the data being entered as command parameter values.

Note:

- Only the user ID and address, system name and group, department, and the X.400 O/R parameters are translated to the graphic character set identifier (GCID) specified on this parameter. All other parameter values that you specify are stored exactly as they are entered; the GCID value is stored with them.

- If this command is run interactively, the default GCID value is taken from the display device description. If it is run in batch, the default GCID value is taken from the QCHRID system value. You can override these values by specifying a specific character set and code page on this parameter.

Single values

*SYSVAL
The system determines the graphic character set and code page values for the command parameters from the QCHRID system value.

*DEVD
The system determines the graphic character set and code page values from the display device description where this command was entered. This option is valid only when entered from an interactive job. If this option is specified in a batch job, an error occurs.

Element 1: Graphic character set

1-32767
Specify the graphic character set to use.

Element 2: Code page

1-32767
Specify the code page to use.

Top

Examples

RMVDIRE USRID(HURST NEWYORK) USRD('Manager of Payroll')

User ID and address HURST NEWYORK is removed if the following is true:

- An entry exists in the directory with the specified user ID, address, and description.

- The user does not own any documents or folders in the document interchange architecture (DIA) library.

- The user is not enrolled in the OfficeVision.

- The user has received all mail from the mail queue.

In addition, the user is removed from all distribution lists.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF89A3
Operation not successful due to authority reasons.

CPF90A8
Operation not successful due to data validation reasons.

CPF90A8
*SECADM special authority required to do requested operation.

CPF9005
System resource required to complete this request not available.

CPF9009
System requires file &1 in &2 be journaled.

CPF9024
System cannot get correct record to finish operation.

CPF905C
Error occurred trying to find a translation table.

CPF9087
Directory entry not removed.

CPF9096
Cannot use CMDCHRID(*DEVD), DOCCHRID(*DEVD) in batch job.

CPF9810
Library &1 not found.

CPF9838
User profile storage limit exceeded.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

CPF9846
Error while processing file &1 in library &2.

Top