PUTOVR (Put with Explicit Override) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

PUTOVR (Put with Explicit Override) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword to enable
the override of either display attributes or data contents (or both)
of specific fields within a record that is displayed on a workstation
device. By using the PUTOVR keyword, you can reduce the amount of
data sent to the display device.

This keyword has no parameters.
If you use the PUTOVR
keyword and subfiles, certain restrictions apply. See the Application
Display Programming book for more information about these restrictions
and how to use PUTOVR in files that are used in the System/36 environment..
When
selected fields in a record that has already been displayed are to
be changed, an output or an input/output operation sent to the record
with the PUTOVR, OVRDTA, and OVRATR keywords in effect changes only
the fields for which the OVRDTA or OVRATR keyword is in effect. The
OVRDTA keyword permits a change in the data contents of the field
and the OVRATR keyword permits a change in the display attributes
of the field. The way in which fields are to be changed is controlled
by setting option indicators.
The following conditions cause
the Put-Override keywords to be ignored and no error to occur:
PUTOVR is not in effect at the time of the output operation.

Neither the OVRDTA nor OVRATR keyword is in effect at the time
of the output operation.

The record format is not already on the display.

The PUTOVR and OVRDTA keywords must be specified when
DFT is specified for a named output-capable field. When the PUTOVR
and OVRDTA keywords are both in effect for a field, the default value
specified with the DFT keyword is displayed only on the first display
of the field. On subsequent displays with the PUTOVR and OVRDTA keywords
in effect, the program value is displayed.
If a field is not
displayed on the first output operation to a record format, certain
restrictions apply. These restrictions apply when, on a subsequent
output operation, the field is selected for display and the put-override
keywords are also in effect:
For output-only fields for which the OVRDTA or OVRATR keyword
is selected, the IBM® i operating
system does not send an ending attribute character. Any display attributes
(such as reverse image) are continued across the display until the
beginning attribute character of the next field on the display. You
should display output-only fields on the first output operation (perhaps
with the DSPATR(ND) keyword so they cannot be seen) in order to provide
an ending attribute character for later overrides.

For input-capable or message fields for which the OVRDTA or OVRATR
keyword is selected, the IBM i operating
system sends an ending attribute character. This field must be displayed
on the initial output operation.

The PUTRETAIN keyword and the PUTOVR keyword cannot be
specified on the same record format.
The OVRDTA keyword is permitted
only with output-only (usage O), input/output (usage B), program-to-system
(usage P), or message (usage M) fields.
The OVRATR keyword is
permitted only with output-only (usage O), input-only (usage I), or
input/output (usage B) fields.
If you specify PUTOVR, you should
also specify RSTDSP(*YES) on the Create Display File (CRTDSPF) or
Change Display File (CHGDSPF) command. Otherwise, data on the display
can be lost if the file is suspended.
A warning message is sent
at file creation time if the PUTOVR keyword is specified on a record
with the DSPMOD keyword. At run time, the PUTOVR keyword is ignored
when the display mode changes.
The OVRATR keyword can be used
only to override the following display attributes: CHECK(ER)
CHECK(ME)
DUP
DSPATR (all except OID and SP)

An output operation with
the OVRDTA keyword in effect does not need to have the OVRATR keyword
in effect to override display attributes, as well as data contents,
of the field or fields being overridden.
Option indicators are
valid for the PUTOVR, OVRATR, and OVRDTA keywords.

ExampleThe following example shows how
to specify the PUTOVR, OVRATR, and OVRDTA keywords.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R INVRCD PUTOVR
00020A FLD1 1 26'INVENTORY REMAINING IN WAREHOUSE 1'
00030A*
00040A 3 2'Remaining on hand:'
00050A OVRATR
00060A 11 DSPATR(HI)
00070A*
00080A INVBAL 5Y 0 +2
00090A 12 OVRDTA
00100A*
00110A +2'Low on stock' OVRATR
00120A N70 DSPATR(ND)
00130A 70 DSPATR(HI)
00140A*
00150A SUPPPL 20 B 5 2DFT('INTERNAL')
00160A 13 OVRDTA
00170A*
00180A ACCT 20 6 2OVRDTA
00190A DSPATR(HI)
00200A 14 DSPATR(RI)
AAn initial output operation generates a full
display of information; on a second output operation, PUTOVR is in
effect and the program can set option indicators to make the following
changes to the display:
If option indicator 11 is set on, the Remaining on hand: constant
field will be changed to a highlighted field. To reset the display
attribute to normal, display the record format again with option indicator
11 off.

If option indicator 12 is set on, the program can change the displayed
value of the field INVBAL.

If option indicator 70 is set off, the Low on stock constant
field is a nondisplay field. If option indicator 70 is set on, the
field is changed to a highlighted field.

If option indicator 13 is set on, the program can set the value
of the field SUPPL to override the default value (INTERNAL). The first
displayed value is always INTERNAL; to display the value INTERNAL
again after changing it to something else, the program must set the
value of the field to INTERNAL before displaying it again.

If option indicator 14 is set on, the display attribute of the
field ACCT is changed from highlight to highlight and reverse image
at the same time that new data is sent to the field. If option indicator
14 is set off, the display attribute is changed back to highlight.
New data is sent to the display on each output operation.