INZ{(initial value)}

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Definition Specifications > Definition-Specification Keywords > Definition-Specification Keywords

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Definition Specifications > Definition-Specification Keywords

INZ{(initial value)}

The INZ keyword initializes the standalone field, data structure,
data-structure subfield, or object to the default value for its data type
or, optionally, to the constant specified in parentheses.

If the field or subfield is defined like an enumeration,
the default value of the field or subfield is the default constant of
the enumeration.

If the initialization value is specified, it must be the name of one of
the constants in the enumeration.

If the initialization value is not specified, the field or subfield
is initialized to the default constant of the enumeration.

See Typed Enumerations and DFT (Default enumeration constant).

For a program described data structure, no parameter is allowed for the
INZ keyword.

For an externally described data structure, only the *EXTDFT parameter
is allowed.

For a data structure that is defined with the LIKEDS keyword, the value
*LIKEDS specifies that subfields are initialized in the same way as the parent
data structure. This applies only to initialization specified
by the INZ keyword on the parent subfield. It does not apply to initialization
specified by the CTDATA or FROMFILE keywords. If the parent data structure
has some subfields initialized by CTDATA or FROMFILE, the data structure initialized
with INZ(*LIKEDS) will not have the CTDATA or FROMFILE data.

For an object, only the *NULL parameter is allowed. Every object is initialized
to *NULL, whether or not you specify INZ(*NULL).

The initial value specified must be consistent with the type being initialized.
The initial value can be a literal, named constant, figurative constant, built-in
function, or one of the special values *SYS, *JOB, *EXTDFT, *USER, *LIKEDS, or *NULL. When initializing Date or Time data type fields or
named constants with Date or Time values, the format of the literal must be
consistent with the default format as derived from the Control specification,
regardless of the actual format of the date or time field.

A UCS-2 field may be initialized with a character, UCS-2 or
graphic constant. If the constant is not UCS-2, the compiler will implicitly
convert it to UCS-2 at compile time.

A numeric field may be initialized with any type of numeric literal. However,
a float literal can only be used with a float field. Any numeric field can
be initialized with a hexadecimal literal of 16 digits or fewer. In this case,
the hexadecimal literal is considered an unsigned numeric value.

Specifying INZ(*EXTDFT) initializes externally described data-structure
subfields with the default values from the DFT keyword in the DDS. If no DFT
or constant value is specified, the DDS default value for the field type is
used. You can override the value specified in the DDS by coding INZ with or
without a parameter on the subfield specification.

Specifying INZ(*EXTDFT) on the external data structure definition, initializes
all externally described subfields to their DDS default values. If the externally
described data structure has additional program described subfields, these
are initialized to the RPG default values.

When using INZ(*EXTDFT), take note of the following:

If the DDS value for a date or time field is not in the RPG internal format,
the value will be converted to the internal format in effect for the program.

External descriptions must be in physical files.

If *NULL is specified for a null-capable field in the DDS, the compiler
will use the DDS default value for that field as the initial value.

If DFT('') is specified for a varying length field, the field will be
initialized with a string of length 0.

INZ(*EXTDFT) is not allowed if the CVTOPT option is in effect.

Specifying INZ(*USER) intializes any character field or subfield to the
name of the current user profile. Character fields must be at least 10 characters
long. If the field is longer than 10 characters, the user name is left-justified
in the field with blanks in the remainder.

Date fields can be initialized to *SYS or *JOB. Time and Timestamp fields
can be initialized to *SYS.

See Initialization of Nested Data Structures for a complete description
of the use of the INZ keyword in the inititlization of nested data structures.

A data structure, data-structure subfield, or standalone field defined
with the INZ keyword cannot be specified as a parameter on an *ENTRY PLIST.

This keyword is not valid in combination with BASED or IMPORT.

When the INZ keyword is not specified

When the INZ keyword is not specified for a standalone field, the
field is initialized to its default initial value.

When either the CONST keyword
or the INZ keyword without a parameter is specified for a data structure,
subfields that do not have the INZ keyword specified are initialized to
their default values.

When neither the INZ keyword nor the CONST keyword
is specified for the data structure,
subfields that do not have the INZ keyword specified are initialized to blanks, regardless
of their data type.

Parent topic: Definition-Specification Keywords