Start DPR Capture (STRDPRCAP)

Start DPR Capture (STRDPRCAP)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All
environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Start DPR Capture (STRDPRCAP) command starts the process
that captures changes to iSeries data source tables.
The files that you want to capture changes for must first be
registered.
You register files using the Replication Center or Add DPR
Registration (ADDDPRREG) command. The files that you register for
change capture are defined in the "CAPCTLLIB"/IBMSNAP_REGISTER
table.
When you have registered the source tables to use remote
journaling, you must run the STRDPRCAP command on the same system
where you registered the source tables.
The values for the retention limit and the lag limit in the
Tuning Parameter table IBMSNAP_CAPPARMS affect the operation of the
STRDPRCAP command. You can alter these settings using the Change
DPR Capture Attributes (CHGDPRCAPA) command. These values take
affect when the Capture component is started. While capture is in
active state you can change the capture tuning values dynamically
using the Override DPR Capture Attributes OVRDPRCAPA command.

- Note: Do not precede an entry with an asterisk unless that
entry is shown on the display itself or in the help information
with an asterisk.

Error Messages for STRDPRCAP

*ESCAPE Messages

ASN2002
Capture Parameters table not found.
ASN2003
No tables have been registered.
ASN2560
Capture instance is already active.
ASN2561
Capture instance is starting.
ASN2019
Not authorized to Capture Parameters table
IBMSNAP_CAPPARMS.
ASN2501
Not authorized to register table.
ASN2513
STRDPRCAP command failed.
ASN4501
Register table not found or failed to open.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
RESTART | Restart after end | *YES, *NO | Optional, Positional 1
JOBD | Job description | Qualified object name | Optional, Positional 2
Qualifier 1: Job description | Name, QZSNDPR
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL
WAIT | Wait | 60-6000, 120 | Optional, Positional 3
CLNUPITV | Clean up interval | Element list | Optional, Positional 4
Element 1: Wait time | 1-100, *DFT
Element 2: Start clean up | *IMMED, *DELAYED, *NO
CAPCTLLIB | Capture control library | Name, ASN | Optional, Positional 5
JRN | Journal | Single values: *ALL

Other values (up to 50 repetitions): Qualified object
name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Journal | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
TRCLMT | Trace limit | 1-35000000, *DFT | Optional
MONLMT | Monitor limit | 1-35000000, *DFT | Optional
MONITV | Monitor interval | 60-6000, *DFT | Optional
MEMLMT | Memory limit | 1-35656, *DFT | Optional
RETAIN | Retention period | 1-35000000, *DFT | Optional
LAG | Lag limit | 1-35000000, *DFT | Optional
FRCFRQ | Force frequency | 30-600, *DFT | Optional

Top

Restart after end (RESTART)

Specifies how to start the Capture process.

*YES
The Capture process continues processing the changes from the
point that it finished when previously ended. Also known as a
warm start , this is the default mode of operation.
*NO
The Capture process removes all information from the Change
Data tables before it processes the changes. If you specify *ALL on
the JRN parameter, Capture also removes all information from the
"CAPCTLLIB"/IBMSNAP_UOW table. The subscriptions for all of the
affected base tables are full-refreshed before change capture
resumes. This is also known as a cold start .

Top

Job description (JOBD)

Specifies the name of the job description to use when submitting
the Capture process.

*LIBL/QZSNDPR
Specifies the default job description provided with the
DataPropagator product for iSeries.
job-description-name
Specifies the name (library-name/job-description-name) of the
job description used for the Capture process.

Top

Wait (WAIT)

Specify the maximum number of seconds to wait before the Capture
process checks its status. You can use this value to tune the
performance of the Capture process. A low value reduces the time
the Capture process takes before ending or initializing, but can
have an effect on system performance. A higher value increases the
time the Capture process takes before ending or initializing, but
can improve system performance. A value that is too high can result
in decreased performance while the Capture process is performing
periodic processing. The amount of the decrease in performance
depends on the amount of change activity to registered files and
the amount of other work occurring on the system.

120
The default maximum number of seconds the Capture process
waits.
60-6000
Specify the maximum number of seconds you want the Capture
process to wait.

Top

Clean up interval (CLNUPITV)

Specify the maximum number of hours the Capture process waits
before pruning old records from the Change Data tables and other
control tables.
This parameter works in conjunction with the RETAIN parameter
(in the case of CDs, the UOW, the SIGNAL table and the AUTHTKN
table), the TRCLMT parameter(in the case of the CAPTRACE table) and
the MONLMT parameter (in case of the CAPMON table). Whereas this
parameter determines how frequent to prune and the three other
parameters determine whether an old row is eligible for
pruning.
STRDPRCAP command uses the values RETENTION_LIMIT,TRACE_LIMIT,
MONITOR_LIMIT and PRUNE_INTERVAL stored in the CAPPARMS table if
the user chooses the default for RETAIN, TRCLMT, MONLMT and
CLNUPITV parameters,respectively. A user can supply a new value for
these limits on the STRDPRCAP command. Or the user can alter their
values at a later time using the OVRDPRCAPA command while capture
is running.
At the time interval you specify on this parameter, the Capture
process uses information from the Pruning Set table to determine
which records in the Change Data tables are eligible for
pruning.
This is a two-part value. The first part specifies the number of
hours the Capture process waits before pruning records.

*DFT
Specifies that the default value is used for the CLNUPITV
parameter. The default value is the value of the PRUNE_INTERVAL
column of the Capture tuning parameters table
("CAPCTLLIB/IBMSNAP_CAPPARMS). You can change this value by
changing the CLNUPITV parameter on the Change DPR Capture
Attributes (CHGDPRCAPA) command.
24
The default maximum number of hours the Capture process
waits.
1-100
Specify the maximum number of hours you want the Capture
process to wait.

The second part specifies whether or not you want to prune
records, or whether you want the Capture process to prune records
immediately before capturing any changes.

*IMMED
The Capture process prunes old records from the Change Data
tables before beginning to capture changes for the selected
files.
*DELAYED
The Capture process waits the specified number of hours before
pruning old records from the Change Data tables.
*NO
The Capture process does not prune records.

Top

Capture control library (CAPCTLLIB)

Specifies the name of the Capture control library to use when
submitting the Capture process. The Capture Control Library
contains the control tables where the source tables are
registered.

ASN
Specifies the default capture control library provided with the
DataPropagator product for iSeries.
capture-control-library-name
Specifies the name of the capture control library used for the
Capture process.

Top

Journal (JRN)

Specify a list of up to 50 journals that you want the Capture
process to work with. Capture will start processing all of the
registered tables that are currently journaled to the specified
journal or journals.

*ALL
Capture will start working with all of the journals that have
any registered tables journaled to them.
library-name/journal-name
Specify the qualified name of the journal that you want the
Capture process to work with.

Top

Trace limit (TRCLMT)

Specifies the trace limit. During pruning, trace table
IBMSNAP_CAPTRACE entries older than the trace limit will be
pruned.

*DFT
Uses the value from IBMSNAP_CAPPARMS.
trace-limit
Number of minutes of trace data to be kept in the capture trace
table after pruning.

Top

Monitor limit (MONLMT)

Specifies the capture monitor limit. During pruning, monitor
table IBMSNAP_CAPMON entries older than the monitor limit will be
pruned.

*DFT
Uses the value from IBMSNAP_CAPPARMS.
monitor-limit
Number of minutes of monitor data to be kept in the monitor
table after pruning.

Top

Monitor interval (MONITV)

Specifies the monitor interval. Monitor rows will be written
every n seconds as indicated by this value.

*DFT
Uses the value from IBMSNAP_CAPPARMS.
monitor-interval
Specifies how often Capture will write out a monitor row. This
is expressed in seconds. Any value less than 120 seconds will
default to 120 seconds.

Top

Memory limit (MEMLMT)

Specifies the memory limit. Memory in megabytes that each
Capture journal job is allowed to use. After this allocation is
used up, Capture will use temporary files to store any processing
data.

*DFT
Uses the value from IBMSNAP_CAPPARMS.
memory-limit
Specifies how much memory each Capture journal job can
use.

Top

Retention period (RETAIN)

Specifies the retention limit, which is the number of minutes
that data is retained in the CD tables and the UOW table before it
is removed.
The value of this parameter works with the CLNUPITV parameter.
When the CLNUPITV value is reached, data in the CD and UOW tables
is removed if the UOW table row shows that the transaction is older
than the value of this parameter.
Ensure that the Apply intervals are set to copy changed
information before the value on the RETAIN parameter is reached.
This prevents your tables from becoming inconsistent. If they
become inconsistent, the Apply program performs full refreshes.

*DFT
Uses the value from IBMSNAP_CAPPARMS.
retention-limit (in minutes)
Specifies the number of minutes that the CD is retained.

Top

Lag limit (LAG)

Specifies the lag limit, which is the number of minutes that the
Capture program can fall behind before clearing out the CD tables
and starting over with change capture. When the lag limit is
reached (that is, when the timestamp of the journal entry is older
than the current time minus the lag limit), the Capture program
assumes that it is too far behind to catch up. It then initiates a
cold start for the tables that it is processing for that journal.
The Apply program then performs a full refresh to provide the
Capture program with a new starting point. Users typically set this
value high so that it has no effect.

*DFT
Uses the value from IBMSNAP_CAPPARMS.
lag-limit (in minutes)
Specifies the number of minutes that the Capture processing of
CD entries is allowed to fall behind.

Top

Force frequency (FRCFRQ)

Specifies approximately how often the Capture program writes
changes to the CD and UOW tables.
The Capture program makes the changes available to the Apply
program either when the buffers are filled or when this time has
expired, whichever occurs first.
Use this parameter to make source table changes more readily
available for the Apply program on servers with a low rate of
source table changes.
This is a global value, and is used for all defined source
tables. Setting this value at a lower number can affect processor
usage.

*DFT (default)
Uses the COMMIT_INTERVAL value from IBMSNAP_CAPPARMS.
force-frequency (in seconds)
Specifies the number of seconds that the Capture program keeps
CD table and UOW table changes in buffer space before making them
available for use by the Apply program. This value can range from
30 to 600 seconds.

Top

Examples

None

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

ASN2002
Capture Parameters table not found.
ASN2003
No tables have been registered.
ASN2560
Capture instance is already active.
ASN2561
Capture instance is starting.
ASN2019
Not authorized to Capture Parameters table
IBMSNAP_CAPPARMS.
ASN2501
Not authorized to register table.
ASN2513
STRDPRCAP command failed.
ASN4501
Register table not found or failed to open.

Top