INDTXT (Indicator Text) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

INDTXT (Indicator Text) keyword for display files

You use this file-level, record-level, or field-level
keyword to associate a descriptive text (indicating intent or use)
with a specific response or option indicator. You can specify the keyword
once for each response and option indicator.

The format for the keyword is: INDTXT(indicator 'indicator-text')
If
you specify this keyword, indicator-text is a required parameter value. The
text is included on the computer printout created at program compilation time
to explain the intended use of the indicator. This text's only function in
the file or the program is a comment. The single quotation marks are required.
If you specify more than 50 characters between the single quotation marks,
the text is truncated to 50 characters on the program computer printout.
Option
indicators are not valid for this keyword.
Note: The INDTXT
keyword by itself does not cause the specified indicator to appear in either
the input or the output record area. It merely provides text to be associated
with the indicator. If the indicator has not been specified elsewhere (as
either an option indicator or a response indicator), then the text is lost
without a diagnostic message. When an indicator has been given a text assignment
(either by this keyword or the response indicator text), no other text assignment
is allowed.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the INDTXT keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A INDTXT(02 'Alternate month')
00020A R MASTER
00030A MTH 2 10
00040A 02 ALTMTH 2 10
AINDTXT describes the use of option indicator 02. In a
compiler computer printout for a high-level language, 'Alternate month' will
be printed as a comment with the description of indicator 02.