Reclaim Document Lib Object (RCLDLO)

Reclaim Document Lib Object (RCLDLO)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Reclaim Document Library Object (RCLDLO) command allows you to reclaim:

- a document

- a folder

- a folder and all documents and folders directly or indirectly contained within it

- internal Document Library system objects.

- internal Document Library system objects, unfiled distribution documents, and all filed folders and documents on the system. Related document details are synchronized.

- internal document library system objects and all filed folders and documents in one auxiliary storage pool (ASP). Related document details are synchronized.

When using the RCLDLO command to reclaim all document library objects, the objects are synchronized with the search details index and the text search index. The synchronization with the text search index is complete when all the requests to update the text search index generated using the RCLDLO command have been processed.

Restrictions:

- To reclaim internal document library system objects or all Document Library objects, you must have all object (*ALLOBJ) or security administrator (*SECADM) special authority. These objects can be reclaimed only when no folders or documents are in use.

- You must have exclusive use of the document or folder while it is being reclaimed. You do not need authority to a document or folder to reclaim it. You also do not need to be enrolled in the System Distribution Directory.

- While using this command, you may encounter an error message indicating that internal objects are locked. Another user may be using Document Library functions, which prevents the RCLDLO command from running. Retry this command after other Document Library activity has ended.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
DLO | Document library object | Character value, *SYSOBJNAM, *INT, *ALL, *FLR, *DOCDTL | Required, Positional 1
FLR | In folder | Character value, *NONE | Optional, Positional 2
SYSOBJNAM | System object name | Name | Optional
SYSOBJATR | System object attributes | *NONE, *INTDOC, *DST | Optional
ASP | Auxiliary storage pool ID | 1-32, *ANY | Optional
OUTFILE | File to receive output | Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: File to receive output | Name, *NONE
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
OUTMBR | Output member options | Element list | Optional
Element 1: Member to receive output | Name, *FIRST
Element 2: Replace or add records | *REPLACE, *ADD

Top

Document library object (DLO)

Specifies the name of object to reclaim.

This is a required parameter.

*FLR
A folder and all folders and documents directly or indirectly within it are to be reclaimed.

*SYSOBJNAM
A system object name is used to identify the folder or document to be reclaimed. This parameter must be used when reclaiming a document that is not in a folder including internal and distribution documents.

*INT
Internal document library system objects are to be reclaimed.

Note: The internal document library system objects are used to manage the documents and folders on the system. RCLDLO DLO(*INT) is only necessary if the internal objects become damaged. If the internal objects are damaged, attempts to access documents and folders will result in the message CPF8A46 (Internal system objects are damaged), possibly followed by the message CPF9032 (Document interchange session not started),

*DOCDTL
Internal document library system objects and document details are to be reclaimed. DLO(*DOCDTL) synchronizes the relationships between all document library objects and their document details and will fix inconsistencies between them.

Note: The RCLDLO DLO(*DOCDTL) command can be a long-running function, performing a subset of the RCLDLO DLO(*ALL) processing necessary to guarantee consistency between internal system objects, document details, and DLOs.

*ALL
Internal document library system objects and all documents and folders (as specified on the ASP parameter) are to be reclaimed. DLO(*ALL) synchronizes the relationships between all document library objects and their document details and can be used to fix inconsistencies between them.

Note: The RCLDLO DLO(*ALL) command can be a long-running function, depending on the number of documents and folders on the system. If the RCLDLO command can be issued at the user's discretion, the user may wish to avoid the operation until the time required can be scheduled.

name
Specify the name of the document or folder to be reclaimed.

Top

In folder (FLR)

Specifies the folder containing the folder or document to reclaim, or specifies the folder to reclaim along with all documents and folders directly or indirectly within it. A folder name is entered on this parameter only if a folder or document name or *FLR is entered on the Document library object (DLO) parameter.

*NONE
The folder or document to reclaim is not located in a folder.

name
Specify the name of the folder that contains the document or folder to reclaim or specify the name of the folder to reclaim along with all folders and documents directly contained within it.

Top

System object name (SYSOBJNAM)

Specifies the system object name of the object to reclaim. A system object name must be entered on this parameter if *SYSOBJNAM is specified on the Document library object (DLO) parameter.

Top

System object attributes (SYSOBJATR)

Specifies the attributes of the object to reclaim. A value other than *NONE may be entered on this parameter only if *SYSOBJNAM is specified on the Document library object (DLO) parameter.

*NONE
No attributes are specified for the object.

*INTDOC
The object to reclaim is an internal document.

*DST
The object to reclaim is a distribution document.

Top

Auxiliary storage pool ID (ASP)

Specifies the identifier (ID) of the auxiliary storage pool (ASP) of the document library object to be reclaimed. A value other than *ANY can be specified on this parameter only if *ALL or *DOCDTL is specified on the DLO parameter.

*ANY
The objects to be reclaimed reside in any ASP. When *ALL is specified on the DLO parameter, all document library objects on the system are reclaimed.

1-32
Only document library objects that reside in the specified ASP are to be reclaimed. All document library objects in other ASPs are ignored. The value must designate an existing ASP that contains document library objects. ASP 1 is the system ASP.

Note: Unfiled distribution documents are classified as document library objects in the system ASP.

Top

File to receive output (OUTFILE)

Specifies the name of the database file to which special output is directed. If the output file does not exist, this command creates a database file in the specified library. If the file is created by this function, the descriptive text is "OUTFILE created by RCLDLO" and the authority for users without specific authority to the file is *EXCLUDE. A value other than *NONE can be specified on this parameter only if *ALL or *DOCDTL is specified on the DLO parameter.

The output directed to this file includes the names of any documents that are physically damaged (and therefore unusable) or documents or folders that were missing from the system (and for which the document details have been removed). This file is intended to provide the user with a record of what was lost (such as a user ASP) when recovering from hardware failure.

Qualifier 1: File to receive output

*NONE
No output is directed to a database file.

name
Specify the qualified name of the database file that is to receive the output. This file can be reused when other RCLDLO commands are issued. Output is added to the file as specified on the OUTMBR parameter. The IBM-supplied database file, QSYS/QARCLDLO, cannot be specified.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the library list for the current thread are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is searched. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, the QGPL library is used.

name
Specify the name of the library to be searched.

Top

Output member options (OUTMBR)

Specifies the name of the database file member that receives the output of the command.

Element 1: Member to receive output

*FIRST
The first member in the file receives the output. If OUTMBR(*FIRST) is specified and the member does not exist, the system creates a member with the name of the file specified for the File to receive output (OUTFILE) parameter. If the member already exists, you have the option to add new records to the end of the existing member or clear the member and then add the new records.

name
Specify the name of the file member that receives the output. If it does not exist, the system creates it.

Element 2: Replace or add records

*REPLACE
The system clears the existing member and adds the new records.

*ADD
The system adds the new records to the end of the existing records.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Reclaiming a Folder

RCLDLO DLO(FLR1)

This command reclaims folder FLR1.

Example 2: Reclaiming a Document Within a Folder

RCLDLO DLO(A) FLR(FLR2)

This command reclaims folder or document A in folder FLR2.

Example 3: Reclaiming a Folder and All Documents and Folders Within It

RCLDLO DLO(*FLR) FLR(FLR3)

This command reclaims folder FLR3 and all folders and documents directly or indirectly contained within it.

Example 4: Reclaiming an Internal Document

RCLDLO DLO(*SYSOBJNAM) SYSOBJNAM(AMBT133080)
SYSOBJATR(*INTDOC)

This command reclaims the internal document specified by the system object name AMBT133080.

Example 5: Reclaiming a Distribution Document

RCLDLO DLO(*SYSOBJNAM) SYSOBJNAM(AMBT133082)
SYSOBJATR(*DST)

This command reclaims the distribution document specified by the system object name AMBT133082.

Example 6: Reclaiming Document Library System Objects

RCLDLO DLO(*INT)

This command reclaims internal document library system objects.

Example 7: Reclaiming Document Library System Objects and Document Details

RCLDLO DLO(*DOCDTL)

This command reclaims internal document library system objects and document details for all folders and documents.

Example 8: Reclaiming Document Library System Objects and All Documents and Folders

RCLDLO DLO(*ALL)

This command reclaims internal document library system objects and all documents and folders and synchronizes their document details.

Example 9: Reclaiming Document Library System Objects and All Documents and Folders in an ASP

RCLDLO DLO(*ALL) ASP(2)

This command reclaims internal document library system objects and all documents and folders residing in ASP 2 and synchronizes their document details.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF8A44
Error occurred in document details.

CPF8AA4
Reclaim of &2 not successful.

CPF8A29
Reclaim of &2 partially successful.

Top