PERCENTILE_CONT

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Aggregate functions > Aggregate functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Aggregate functions

PERCENTILE_CONT
The PERCENTILE_CONT function returns the value that corresponds
to the specified percentile given a sort specification by using a
continuous distribution model.
PERCENTILE_CONT(percentile-expression)WITHIN GROUP(ORDER BYsort-expressionASCDESC)
percentile-expression
Specifies the percentile to be calculated by the function. percentile-expression must
return any built-in numeric, character-string, or graphic-string data
type. If the argument is a character-string or graphic-string, it
is cast to DECFLOAT(34) before evaluating the function. The value
must be between 0 and 1. percentile-expression must not contain
a scalar-fullselect, a column reference, or a user-defined
function reference.
WITHIN GROUP
Specifies that the percentile is to be calculated over the rows
identified in the group.
sort-expression
Specifies the set of values over which to calculate the percentile
as well as the order of the set. sort-expression must return
a built-in numeric, character string, or graphic string data type.
If the sort-expression is a character-string or graphic-string,
it is cast to DECFLOAT(34) before evaluating the function. ASC
Specifies that the percentile is to be calculated using values
from sort-expression in ascending order.
DESC
Specifies that the percentile is to be calculated using values
from sort-expression in descending order.

The result is the value at the
percentile specified by percentile-expression over the set
of values identified by sort-expression. The set of values
is treated as a continuous distribution. The calculated percentile
is an interpolated value which might not have appeared in the input
set. If the data type of sort-expression is DECFLOAT(n), the
result of the function is DECFLOAT(34). Otherwise the data type of
the result is double-precision floating point.
The function is applied to the set of values derived from
the argument values by the elimination of null values.
The result
can be null. If percentile-expression is null or if the function
is applied to the empty set, the result is the null value.
NotesWhen used in an OLAP specification,
only the window-partition-clause can be specified.
Column
masks: If a column that is referenced in the sort-expression of
the PERCENTILE_CONT function is defined to have a column mask, the
column mask is not applied.
The result of using PERCENTILE_CONT(0.5)
WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY sort-expression) is equivalent to specifying
MEDIAN(sort-expression).
ExamplesExample 1: Calculate the median salary of the employees
in department D11.SELECT PERCENTILE_CONT(0.5) WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY SALARY) FROM EMPLOYEE
WHERE WORKDEPT = 'D11'
The result is 24680.00. There
are 11 employees in department D11. The middle row of a group of 11
values is the sixth row. Since there are an odd number of rows, PERCENTILE_CONT
for the percentile 0.5 returns the value of the sixth row, which is
24680.00.
Example 2: Calculate the median commission of the employees
in department E21.SELECT PERCENTILE_CONT(0.5) WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY COMM) FROM EMPLOYEE
WHERE WORKDEPT = 'E21'
The result is 1968.5. Since
there are an even number of rows, the PERCENTILE_CONT is computed
by interpolating a value between the middle two rows. The middle two
rows are row three with value 1907.00 and row four with value 2030.00.
PERCENTILE_CONT is computed by averaging those two values, which results
in 1968.5.

Parent topic: Aggregate functions