Sequences

Sequences

Last Updated: 2025-10-07

A sequence is a stored object that simply generates a sequence
of numbers in a monotonically ascending (or descending) order. Sequences
provide a way to have the database manager automatically generate
unique integer and decimal primary keys, and to coordinate keys across
multiple rows and tables.

A sequence can be used to exploit parallelization, instead of
programmatically generating unique numbers by locking the most recently
used value and then incrementing it.

Sequences are ideally suited to the task of generating unique key
values. One sequence can be used for many tables, or a separate sequence
can be created for each table requiring generated keys. A sequence
has the following properties:

- Can have guaranteed, unique values, assuming that the sequence
is not reset and does not allow the values to cycle.

- Can have increasing or decreasing values within a defined range.

- Can have an increment value other than 1 between consecutive values
(the default is 1).

- Is recoverable.

Values for a given sequence are automatically generated by the
database manager. Use of a sequence in the database avoids the performance
bottleneck that results when an application implements sequences outside
the database. The counter for the sequence is incremented (or decremented)
independently from the transaction.

In some cases, gaps can be introduced in a sequence. A gap can
occur when a given transaction increments a sequence two times. The
transaction may see a gap in the two numbers that are generated because
there may be other transactions concurrently incrementing the same
sequence. A user may not realize that other users are drawing from
the same sequence. Furthermore, it is possible that a given sequence
can appear to have generated gaps in the numbers, because a transaction
that may have generated a sequence number may have rolled back. Updating
a sequence is not part of a transaction's unit of recovery.

A sequence is created with a CREATE SEQUENCE statement. A sequence
can be referenced using a sequence-reference. A sequence reference
can appear most places that an expression can appear. A sequence reference
can specify whether the value to be returned is a newly generated
value, or the previously generated value. For more information, see Sequence reference and CREATE SEQUENCE.

Although there are similarities, a sequence is different than an
identity column. A sequence is an object, whereas an identity column
is a part of a table. A sequence can be used with multiple tables,
but an identity column is part of a single table.