Work with Distribution Queue (WRKDSTQ)

Work with Distribution Queue (WRKDSTQ)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Work with Distribution Queue (WRKDSTQ) command displays and controls the distribution requests on the Systems Network Architecture distribution services (SNADS) distribution queues. A detailed description of SNADS is in the SNA Distribution Services book, SC41-5410.

Distribution queue names are translated to the graphic character set and code page 930 500, using the job's coded character set identifier (CCSID).

Restrictions:

- This command is shipped with public *EXCLUDE authority, and the QPGMR and QSYSOPR user profiles have private authorities to use the command.

- Before this command is run for the first time, the QSNADS subsystem must have been previously started to create the internal SNADS objects that this command uses.

- Messages that report errors about distribution queues may display or print different characters than you entered for the distribution queue name because of internal system transformations. Similarly (depending on the language used for the work station), the internal value for a distribution queue name may differ from the characters shown for the Work with Distribution Queue (WRKDSTQ) command. An error may be reported if the character-string value specified for the Distribution queue prompt (DSTQ parameter) does not match the rules for an internal distribution queue value or if it does not match the internal value for any defined distribution queue (ignoring case differences).

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
QUEUE | Distribution | Element list | Optional, Positional 1
Element 1: Queue | Character value, *ALL
OUTPUT | Output | *, *PRINT | Optional

Top

Distribution (QUEUE)

Specifies the name of the distribution queue that is shown or printed. The queue specified must have been previously configured using the Configure Distribution Services (CFGDSTSRV) command or the Add Distribution Queue (ADDDSTQ) command.

The possible values are:

*ALL
All SNADS distribution queues are shown or printed, in alphabetic order, by queue name.

distribution-queue-name
Specify a particular SNADS distribution queue.

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether the output from the command is displayed at the requesting work station or printed with the job's spooled output.

The possible values are:

*
The output is displayed (if requested by an interactive job) or printed with the job's spooled output (if requested by a batch job).

*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Working With All Distribution Queues

WRKDSTQ

This command allows the user to work with the status and contents of all distribution queues. The normal and high priority portions of each distribution queue are shown or printed.

Example 2: Printing Information

WRKDSTQ OUTPUT(*PRINT)

This command prints information on all distribution queues. The status of the normal and priority portions of the distribution queues are printed followed by a list of the distribution requests on the normal and high priority portions of each distribution queue.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF8802
Distribution queue &1 was not found.

CPF8806
Value &1 not valid for system name or system group.

CPF8807
Error occurred while using QSNADS journal.

CPF8809
Errors detected on SNADS internal queues.

CPF8812
Error occurred while processing distribution queues.

CPF8813
No entries exist.

CPF8819
Special value for distribution queue name not permitted.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

CPF9846
Error while processing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9847
Error occurred while closing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9850
Override of printer file &1 not allowed.

Top