Changing the values of variables

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging original program model programs > Debugging original program model programs

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging original program model programs

Changing the values of variables
To change the value of a program variable in
debug mode, use the Change Program Variable (CHGPGMVAR),
the Change HLL Pointer (CHGHLLPTR), or the Change
Pointer (CHGPTR) command.
Changing the value of a program variable consists of specifying
the variable name and a value that is compatible with the data type of the
variable. For example, if the variable is character type, you must enter
a character value.
When changing the value of variables, you should
be aware of whether the variable is an automatic variable or a static variable.
The difference between the two is in the storage for the variables. For automatic
variables, the storage is associated with the call of the program. Every
time a program is called, a new copy of the variable is placed in automatic
storage. A change to an automatic variable remains in effect only for the
program call the change was made in.
Note: In some languages, the definition
of a call is made at the procedure level and not just at the program level.
For these languages, storage for automatic variables is associated with the
call of the procedure. Every time a procedure is called, a new copy of the
variable is gotten. A change to an automatic variable remains in effect only
while that procedure is called. Only the automatic variables in the most
recent procedure call can be changed. The RCRLVL (recursion level) parameter
on the commands applies only on a program basis and not on a procedure basis.
For
static variables, the storage is associated with the activation. Only one
copy of a static variable exists in storage no matter how many times a program
is called. A change to a static variable remains in effect for the duration
of the activation.
To determine if a program variable is a static or
an automatic variable, request an intermediate representation of a program
(IRP) list (*LIST and *XREF on the GENOPT parameter) when the program containing
the variables is created.
When changing a variable that is an array,
you must specify one element of the array. Consequently, you must specify
the subscript values for the array element you want to change.

Parent topic: Debugging original program model programs

Related information
Change Program Variable (CHGPGMVAR) command
Change Pointer (CHGPTR) command
Change HLL Pointer (CHGHLLPTR) command