CURRENT-DATE

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Intrinsic Functions > Intrinsic Functions

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Intrinsic Functions

CURRENT-DATE
The CURRENT-DATE function returns a 21-character alphanumeric value
that represents the calendar date, time of day, and time differential
from Greenwich Mean Time provided by the system on which the function
is evaluated.
The function type is alphanumeric.

Format

>>-FUNCTION CURRENT-DATE---------------------------------------><

Reading from left to right, the 21 character positions in the value
returned can be interpreted as follows: Character Positions
Contents
1-4
Four numeric digits of the year in the Gregorian calendar.
5-6
Two numeric digits of the month of the year, in the range 01 through
12.
7-8
Two numeric digits of the day of the month, in the range 01 through
31.
9-10
Two numeric digits of the hours past midnight, in the range 00
through 23.
11-12
Two numeric digits of the minutes past the hour, in the range
00 through 59.
13-14
Two numeric digits of the seconds past the minute, in the range
00 through 59.
15-16
Two numeric digits of the hundredths of a second past the second,
in the range 00 through 99.
17
Either the character '-' or the character '+'. The character '-'
is returned if the local time indicated in the previous character
positions is behind Greenwich Mean Time. The character '+' is returned
if the local time indicated is the same as or ahead of Greenwich Mean
Time.
18-19
If character position 17 is '-', two numeric digits are returned
in the range 00 through 12 indicating the number of hours that the
reported time is behind Greenwich Mean Time. If character position
17 is '+', two numeric digits are returned in the range 00 through
13 indicating the number of hours that the reported time is ahead
of Greenwich Mean Time.
20-21
Two numeric digits are returned in the range 00 through 59 indicating
the number of additional minutes that the reported time is ahead of
or behind Greenwich Mean Time, depending on whether character position
17 is '+' or '-', respectively.

For more information, see the IBM® Rational® Development
Studio for i: ILE COBOL Programmer's Guide.

Parent topic: Intrinsic Functions