SFLMSG (Subfile Message) and SFLMSGID (Subfile Message Identifier)
keywords for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

SFLMSG (Subfile Message) and SFLMSGID (Subfile Message Identifier)
keywords for display files

You use these record-level keywords on the subfile-control
record format to identify a message to be displayed on the message line when
your program performs an output operation to the subfile-control record format.

Your program has the responsibility to reverse the images of any
fields and to position the cursor appropriately in the subfile being displayed.
The
formats of the keywords are: SFLMSG('message-text' [response-indicator])SFLMSGID(msgid [library-name/]msg-file [response-indicator] [&msg-data])

SFLMSG keywordSpecify SFLMSG as
you do the ERRMSG keyword. The parameters specify a message text and, optionally,
a response indicator. The message text is the message to be displayed.
If you specify a response indicator, it should be the same
as the option indicator used to condition SFLMSG. On the input operation that
follows the display of the error message, the IBM® i operating
system turns off the indicator. If the response and option indicators are
the same, they are both turned off. One exception to this rule is that if
the response indicator is also specified for another keyword, such as CHANGE,
CAnn, or CFnn, the on/off
setting of the response indicator is based on the results of the function
provided by the CHANGE or CFnn keyword.
When a response indicator is
specified, the first 50 characters of the message text are also used as indicator
text. Separate response indicator text is not valid for SFLMSG.

SFLMSGID keywordSpecify SFLMSGID
as you do the ERRMSGID keyword.
For SFLMSGID, the parameters specify:

The message identifier for the message to be displayed

The message file and, optionally, the library

A response indicator

A msg-data field name

The response indicator, if specified, should be the same as the
option indicator used to condition the SFLMSGID keyword. On the subsequent
input operation, after the display of the error message, the IBM i operating
system turns off the indicator. However, if the response indicator is also
specified on another keyword, such as CHANGE, CAnn, or
CFnn, the on/off setting of the response indicator is based
on the results of the function provided by the CHANGE, CAnn,
or CFnn keyword.
Note: Indicator text cannot be specified
on the SFLMSGID keyword.
The msg-data field, if specified,
contains the replacement text for the specified message. The field must exist
in the record format, and the field must be defined as a character field (data
type A) with usage P. For more information about how replacement text works,
see the Send Program
Message (SNDPGMMSG) command.

Conditions occurring during message displayThe
display of messages using SFLMSG and SFLMSGID is similar to the display of
messages by the IBM i operating
system when field validation errors are detected. An important difference
from ERRMSG and ERRMSGID is that the program, and not the IBM i operating
system, must position the cursor to the appropriate field within the subfile,
reverse the image of that field within the subfile, and also optionally reverse
the image of more than one field at a time. On the 5250 workstation, blinking
cursor and message highlighting are allowed.
Note: The SFLDSP keyword must
be in effect for SFLMSG and SFLMSGID to be processed.

Restoration of reversed image fieldsSee the Restoration of reversed image fields
section in ERRMSG (Error Message) and ERRMSGID (Error Message Identifier) keywords for display files.

Priority among selected keywordsYou can specify
either SFLMSG or SFLMSGID several times for a single subfile-control record
format. In your program, set option indicators to select a particular message
to be displayed and to select particular fields to be displayed in reverse
image. Several fields can be displayed in reverse image in different records
of a subfile when the subfile is displayed again. However, only one message
can be displayed at one time.
If more than one error
message is selected at a time, the IBM i operating
system displays the first of the following keywords:

ERRMSG (If more than one ERRMSG keyword is selected, the first one selected
is displayed.)

ERRMSGID (If more than one ERRMSGID keyword is selected, the first one
selected is displayed.)

SFLMSG (If more than one SFLMSG keyword is selected, the first one selected
is displayed.)

SFLMSGID (If more than one SFLMSGID keyword is selected, the first one
selected is displayed.)

Message fields (M in position 38) (If more than one message field is selected,
the first one selected is displayed.)

Multiple subfile messages (SFLMSG and SFLMSGID) are allowed on error
subfiles.
Option indicators are valid for these keywords.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the SFLMSG and SFLMSGID keywords.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R SFLR SFL
00020A*
00030A* (at least one displayable field)
00040A*
00050A R SFLCTLR SFLCTL(SFLR)
00060A SFLPAG(17)
00070A SFLSIZ(17)
00080A SFLDSP SFLDSPCTL
00090A 11 SFLMSGID(USR0006 PAYROLL/UMSGF1 +
00100A 11 &RPLTXT);
00110A 12 SFLMSGID(USR0007 PAYROLL/UMSGEF1 +
00120A 12 &RPLTXT);
00130A RPLTXT 78A P
A