Datetime arithmetic in SQL

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Expressions > Expressions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Expressions

Datetime arithmetic in SQL
The only arithmetic operations that can be performed on
datetime values are addition and subtraction. If a datetime value
is the operand of addition, the other operand must be a duration.
The specific rules governing the use of the addition operator
with datetime values follow:
If one operand is a date, the other operand must be a date duration
or labeled duration of years, months, or days.
If one operand is a time, the other operand must be a time duration
or a labeled duration of hours, minutes, or seconds.
If one operand is a timestamp, the other operand must be a duration.
Any type of duration is valid.
Neither operand of the addition operator can be an untyped parameter
marker.

The rules for the use of the subtraction operator on datetime
values are not the same as those for addition because a datetime value
cannot be subtracted from a duration, and because the operation of
subtracting two datetime values is not the same as the operation of
subtracting a duration from a datetime value. The specific rules governing
the use of the subtraction operator with datetime values follow:
If the first operand is a date, the second operand
must be a date, a timestamp, a date duration, a string representation
of a date, a string representation of a timestamp, or a labeled duration
of years, months, or days.
If the second operand is a date, the first operand
must be a date, a timestamp, a string representation of a date, or
a string representation of a timestamp.
If the first operand is a time, the second operand must be a time,
a time duration, a string representation of a time, or a labeled duration
of hours, minutes, or seconds.
If the second operand is a time, the first operand must be a time,
or string representation of a time.
If the first operand is a timestamp, the second operand
must be a date, a timestamp, a string representation of a date, a
string representation of a timestamp, or a duration. If the second
operand is a string representation of a timestamp, it is implicitly
converted to a timestamp with the same precision as the first operand.
If the second operand is a timestamp, the first operand
must be a date, a timestamp, a string representation of a date, or
a string representation of a timestamp. If the first operand is a
string representation of a timestamp, it is implicitly converted to
a timestamp with the same precision as the second operand.
Neither operand of the subtraction operator can be an untyped
parameter marker.

Date arithmetic
Dates can be subtracted, incremented, or decremented.
Time arithmetic
Times can be subtracted, incremented, or decremented.
Timestamp arithmetic
Timestamps can be subtracted, incremented, or decremented.

Parent topic: Expressions