Change Security Attributes (CHGSECA)

Change Security Attributes (CHGSECA)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Change Security Attributes (CHGSECA) command changes the security attributes of a system. This command can be issued to:

- Change the starting value for user ID numbers (UID) that are generated for user profiles.

- Change the starting value for group ID numbers (GID) that are generated for user profiles.

- Enable or disable the use of an additional sign-on factor along with the user ID and password. A change to this value takes effect at the next IPL.

When the UID (user ID number) is to be changed, a search is made for the first available user ID number, starting at the specified value. When the GID (group ID number) is to be changed, a search is made for the first available group ID number, starting at the specified value. If the maximum number is reached before an available number is found, the search will wrap and continue searching starting at 101. These numbers will then be used the next time a UID or GID is generated, for example, when the Create User Profile (CRTUSRPRF) command is issued and *GEN is specified for the UID parameter or the GID parameter, or when profiles are restored. Each subsequent time a UID or GID is generated, the search starts with the last used UID or GID that was generated.

If the UID or GID parameter is not specified, or *SAME is specified, no change will be made to the starting value.

You can use this command to set the starting point for generating UIDs or GIDs on IBM i to one value (for example 3000) and the starting point on a different system could be set to a different value (for example 5000). This facilitates generating unique UID or GID values on multiple systems in a network.

The Change User Profile (CHGUSRPRF) command or the Change User Profile UID or GID (QSYCHGID) API can be used to specify the same UID for profiles on different systems or to The same GID for profiles on different systems.

Restrictions:

- You must have security administrator (*SECADM) special authority.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
UID | User ID number | 101-4294967294, *SAME | Optional
GID | Group ID number | 101-4294967294, *SAME | Optional
ADLSGNFAC | Additional sign-on factor | *SAME, *ENABLED, *DISABLED | Optional

Top

User ID number (UID)

Specifies the new starting value at which a search for an available user ID (UID) number will begin.

*SAME
No change is made to the starting value for generated UIDs.

101-4294967294
Specify the new starting value at which a search for an available UID number will begin.

Top

Group ID number (GID)

Specifies the new starting value at which a search for an available group ID (GID) number will begin.

*SAME
No change is made to the starting value for generated GIDs.

101-4294967294
Specify the new starting value at which a search for an available GID number will begin.

Top

Additional sign-on factor (ADLSGNFAC)

Specifies whether an additional sign-on factor can be used along with a user ID and password. A change to this value takes effect at the next IPL. To see the current and pending additional sign-on factor values, use the Display Security Attributes (DSPSECA) command.

*SAME
No change is made.

*ENABLED
Additional sign-on factor is enabled. The additional factor field will be shown on the sign on panel. A user will need to specify the additional factor value if their user profile has *TOTP as an authentication method or has *REGFAC as an authentication method and the exit program requires an additional factor.
This value can only be specified if the Password Level (QPWDLVL) system value is higher than 3 and the System Security Level (QSECURITY) system value is higher than 30.

If this attribute is set to *ENABLED and the QPWDLVL system value is set to a value less than 4 or the QSECURITY system value is set to a value less than 30, this attribute will be set to *DISABLED during the next IPL that changes the QPWDLVL or QSECURITY system value.

*DISABLED
Additional sign-on factor is disabled.

Top

Examples

CHGSECA UID(2000) GID(3000)

User ID numbers generated after this command has run will start with the first available user ID number found with the search starting at 2000. Group ID numbers generated after this command has run will start with the first available user ID number found with the search starting at 3000.

CHGSECA ADLSGNFAC(*ENABLED)

An additional sign-on factor will be required after the next IPL. User profiles with an authentication method of *TOTP will be required to enter a time-based one-time password (TOTP) when signing on with a user ID and password.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF222E
&1 special authority is required.

CPFB304
User does not have required special authorities.

CPF4ADB
Operation failed due to replication errors.

CPF4ADD
Additional sign-on factor cannot be changed to *ENABLED.

CPF4ADE
Additional sign-on factor cannot be changed.

Top