Using the Start Programmer Menu command

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Entering program source > Entering program source

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Entering program source

Using the Start Programmer Menu command
The Start Programmer Menu (STRPGMMNU) command
performs the same function as a call to QPGMMENU and fills in the standard
input fields.
To fill in the standard input fields at the bottom
of the menu, you can use the following command parameters:
Source file
Source library
Object library
Job description

The command may be used with one or more of the parameters that control
the initial values of the menu. You could design this as part of an initial
program for sign-on or for situations in which a user calls a specific user-written
function. The following example shows such a program, with a separate function
for each application area requiring different initial values.
Note: By
using the code example, you agree to the terms of the Code license and disclaimer information.
PGM
CHGLIBL LIBL(PGMR1 QGPL QTEMP)
LOOP:
STRPGMMNU SRCLIB(PGMR1) OBJLIB(PGMR1) JOBD(PGMR1)
MONMSG MSGID(CPF2320) EXEC(GOTO END) /* F3 or F12 to leave menu */
GOTO LOOP
END: ENDPGM
Controlling programmer menu options The other parameters assist you
in controlling the menu and its functions. For example, you can specify ALWUSRCHG(*NO)
to prevent a user from changing the values that appear on the menu. This
parameter should not be considered to be a security feature because a user
who is using the menu can call the STRPGMMNU command and
change the values in a separate call. (The user can also start functions by
using F10 to call the command entry display.) If the menu is displayed by
the STRPGMMNU command, you can prevent the user (by authorization)
from calling the QPGMMENU program directly, but you cannot prevent the user
from requesting another call of the STRPGMMNU command.

Adapting the menu create option The EXITPGM and DLTOPT parameters
allow you to provide your own support for the menu create option (option 3).
The system may call a user program when you request option 3. IBM provides
online information that discusses the parameters and the parameter list that
are passed to the user program. For more information, see Passing parameters.

Using the EXITPGM parameter of the Start Programmer Menu command
The EXITPGM parameter can be used for various purposes.

Parent topic: Entering program source

Related information
Start Programmer Menu (STRPGMMNU) command