What's New in V4R4?

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > What's New > What's New

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > What's New

What's New in V4R4?

The major enhancements to RPG IV since V4R2 are the support for
running ILE RPG modules safely in a threaded environment, the new 3-digit
and 20-digit signed and unsigned integer data types, and support for
a new Universal Character Set Version 2 (UCS-2) data type and for
conversion between UCS-2 fields and graphic or single-byte character
fields.

The following list describes these enhancements:

Support for ILE RPG procedures running in a multi-threaded enviroment.

The new control specification keyword THREAD(*SERIALIZE) identifies
modules that are enabled to run in a multithreaded environment. Access
to procedures in the module is serialized.

Support for new 1-byte and 8-byte integer data types: 3I and
20I signed integer, and 3U and 20U unsigned integer

These new integer data types provide you with a greater range
of integer values and can also improve performance of integer computations,
taking full advantage of the 64-bit AS/400® RISC processor.

The new 3U type allows you to more easily communicate with ILE C® procedures that have single-byte character (char) return types and parameters passed by value.

The new INTPREC control specification keyword allows you to specify
20-digit precision for intermediate values of integer and unsigned
binary arithmetic operations in expressions.

Built-in functions %DIV and %REM have been added to support integer
division and remainder operations.

Support for new Universal Character Set Version 2 (UCS-2) or Unicode
data type

The UCS-2 (Unicode) character set can encode the characters for
many written languages. The field is a character field whose characters
are two bytes long.

By adding support for Unicode, a single application can now be
developed for a multinational corporation, minimizing the necessity
to perform code page conversion. The use of Unicode permits the processing
of characters in multiple scripts without loss of integrity.

Support for conversions between UCS-2 fields and graphic or single-byte
character fields using the MOVE and MOVEL operations, and the new
%UCS2 and %GRAPH built-in functions.

Support for conversions between UCS-2 fields or graphic fields
with different Coded Character Set Identifiers (CCSIDs) using the
EVAL, MOVE, and MOVEL operations, and the new %UCS2 built-in function.

Other enhancements have been made to this release as well. These
include:

New parameters for the OPTION control specification keyword and
on the create commands:

*SRCSTMT allows you to assign statement numbers for debugging
from the source IDs and SEU sequence numbers in the compiler listing.
(The statement number is used to identify errors in the compiler listing
by the debugger, and to identify the statement where a run-time error
occurs.) *NOSRCSTMT specifies that statement numbers are associated
with the Line Numbers of the listing and the numbers are assigned
sequentially.

Now you can choose not to generate breakpoints for input and output
specifications in the debug view with *NODEBUGIO. If this option is
selected, a STEP on a READ statement in the debugger will step to
the next calculation, rather than stepping through the input specifications.

New special words for the INZ definition specification keyword:

INZ(*EXTDFT) allows you to use the default values in the DDS for
initializing externally described data structure subfields.

Character variables initialized by INZ(*USER) are initialized
to the name of the current user profile.

The new %XFOOT built-in function sums all elements of a specified
array expression.

The new EVALR operation code evaluates expressions and assigns
the result to a fixed-length character or graphic result. The assignment
right-adjusts the data within the result.

The new FOR operation code performs an iterative loop and allows
free-form expressions for the initial, increment, and limit values.

The new LEAVESR operation code can be used to exit from any point
within a subroutine.

The new *NEXT parameter on the OVERLAY(name:*NEXT) keyword indicates
that a subfield overlays another subfield at the next available position.

The new *START and *END values for the SETLL operation code position
to the beginning or end of the file.

The ability to use hexadecimal literals with integer and unsigned
integer fields in initialization and free-form operations, such as
EVAL, IF, etc.

New control specification keyword OPENOPT{(*NOINZOFL | *INZOFL)}
to indicate whether the overflow indicators should be reset to *OFF
when a file is opened.

Ability to tolerate pointers in teraspace — a memory model
that allows more than 16 megabytes of contiguous storage in one allocation.

The following tables summarize the changed and new language elements,
based on the part of the language affected.

Table 1. Changed Language Elements Since V4R2.

Language Unit

Element

Description

Control specification keywords

OPTION(*{NO}SRCSTMT)

*SRCSTMT allows you to request that the compiler use SEU sequence
numbers and source IDs when generating statement numbers for debugging.
Otherwise, statement numbers are associated with the Line Numbers
of the listing and the numbers are assigned sequentially.

OPTION(*{NO}DEBUGIO)

*{NO}DEBUGIO, determines if breakpoints are generated for input
and output specifications.

Definition specification keywords

INZ(*EXTDFT)

All externally described data structure subfields can now be
initialized to the default values specified in the DDS.

INZ(*USER)

Any character field or subfield can be initialized to the name
of the current user profile.

OVERLAY(name:*NEXT)

The special value *NEXT indicates that the subfield is to be
positioned at the next available position within the overlayed field.

OPTIONS(*NOPASS *OMIT *VARSIZE *STRING
*RIGHTADJ)

The new OPTIONS(*RIGHTADJ) specified on a value or constant
parameter in a function prototype indicates that the character, graphic,
or UCS-2 value passed as a parameter is to be right adjusted before
being passed on the procedure call.

Definition specification positions 33-39 (To
Position/Length)

3 and 20 digits allowed for I and U data types

Added to the list of allowed values for internal data types
to support 1-byte and 8-byte integer and
unsigned data.

Internal data type

C (UCS-2 fixed or variable-length format)

Added to the list of allowed internal data types on the definition
specifications. The UCS-2 (Unicode) character set can encode the characters
for many written languages. The field is a
character field whose characters are two bytes long.

Data format

C (UCS-2 fixed or variable-length format)

UCS-2 format added to the list of allowed data formats on the
input and output specifications
for program described files.

Command parameter

OPTION

*NOSRCSTMT, *SRCSTMT, *NODEBUGIO, and *DEBUGIO have been added
to the OPTION parameter on the CRTBNDRPG and CRTRPGMOD commands.

Table 2. New Language Elements Since V4R2.

Language Unit

Element

Description

Control specification keywords

CCSID(*GRAPH: *IGNORE | *SRC | number)

Sets the default graphic CCSID for the module. This setting
is used for literals, compile-time data and program-described input
and output fields and definitions. The default is *IGNORE.

CCSID(*UCS2: number)

Sets the default UCS-2 CCSID for the module. This setting is
used for literals, compile-time data and program-described input and
output fields and definitions. The default is 13488.

INTPREC(10 | 20)

Specifies the decimal precision of integer and unsigned intermediate
values in binary arithmetic operations in expressions. The default,
INTPREC(10), indicates that 10-digit precision is to be used.

OPENOPT{(*NOINZOFL | *INZOFL)}

Indicates whether the overflow indicators should be reset to
*OFF when a file is opened.

THREAD(*SERIALIZE)

Indicates that the module is enabled to run in a multithreaded
environment. Access to the procedures in the module is to be serialized.

Definition specification keywords

CCSID(number | *DFT)

Sets the graphic and UCS-2 CCSID for the definition.

Built-in functions

%DIV(n:m)

Performs integer division on the two operands n and m; the
result is the integer portion of n/m. The operands must be numeric
values with zero decimal positions.

%GRAPH(char-expr | graph-expr | UCS2-expr
{: ccsid})

Converts to graphic data from single-byte character, graphic,
or UCS-2 data.

%REM(n:m)

Performs the integer remainder operation on two operands n
and m; the result is the remainder of n/m. The operands must be numeric
values with zero decimal positions.

%UCS2(char-expr | graph-expr | UCS2-expr
{: ccsid})

Converts to UCS-2 data from single-byte character, graphic,
or UCS-2 data.

%XFOOT(array-expr)

Produces the sum of all the elements in the specified numeric
array expression.

Operation codes

EVALR

Evaluates an assignment statement of the form result=expression.
The result will be right-justified.

FOR

Begins a group of operations and indicates the number of times
the group is to be processed. The initial, increment, and limit values
can be free-form expressions.

ENDFOR

ENDFOR ends a group of operations started by a FOR operation.

LEAVESR

Used to exit from anywhere within a subroutine.

Parent topic: What's New