Accessing files

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Accessing objects in CL programs > Accessing command definitions, files, and procedures > Accessing command definitions, files, and procedures

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Accessing objects in CL programs > Accessing command definitions, files, and procedures

Accessing files
A file must exist when compiling a CL module or original program
model (OPM) program that uses it.
The compiler accesses files when compiling a program module that
has a Declare File (DCLF) command. The file does not have
to exist when creating a program or service program that uses the module.
Enter
Data Description Specifications (DDS) into a source file before creating it.
The DDS describes the record formats and the fields within the records. Additionally,
the system compiles this information to create the file object through the Create
Display File (CRTDSPF) command.
Note: You can create other
types of files from DDS, and each type has its own command: Create
Physical File (CRTPF) and Create Logical File (CRTLF) are
two that create files that you can use in CL programs and procedures.
The
fields that are described in the DDS can be input or output fields (or both).
The system declares the fields in the CL program or procedure as variables
when it compiles a program or module. The program manipulates data from display
through these variables.
If you do not use DDS to create a physical
file, the system declares a CL variable to contain the entire record. This
variable has the same name as the file, and its length is the same as the
record length of the file.
CL programs and procedures cannot
manipulate data in any types of files other than display files and database
files, except with specific CL commands.
Deletion of the DDS after creating
the file is possible but not recommended. You can delete the file after the
system compiles the CL program or module that refers to the file. This is
true provided the file exists when the command referring to it, such as a Receive
File (RCVF), is processed in the program.
The rules on qualified
names that are described here for command definitions also apply to files.

Parent topic: Accessing command definitions, files, and procedures

Related tasks
Working with files in CL programs or procedures