CL parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL commands > CL command information and documentation > CL command documentation format > CL command documentation format

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL commands > CL command information and documentation > CL command documentation format

CL parameters
The Parameters section provides a parameter summary table.
The parameter summary table shows all the parameters and values that are
valid for the command. Possible values are indicated in the Choices column.
The default value, as shipped by IBM, is underlined in the Choices column.
The default values are used by the system for parameters or parts of parameters
that are not coded.
Parameter descriptions Parameter descriptions follow
the parameter summary table. Parameter descriptions are presented in the same
order as the parameters are listed in the parameter summary table. Each parameter
description includes an explanation of the function of the parameter, followed
by a description of each possible parameter value. The default parameter value,
if there is one, is typically described first and is shown as an underlined
heading at the beginning of the text that describes the value.
The
description of each parameter explains what the parameter means, what it specifies,
and the dependent relationships it has with other parameters in the command.
When the parameter has more than one value, the information that applies to
the parameter as a whole is covered first, then the specific information for
each of the values is described after the name of each value.

Parameter summary tableThe parameter summary table
summarizes parameters and values for CL commands.
Keyword
column
This column shows the parameter keyword name.
Every CL command parameter has a keyword name associated with it. When you
are viewing the command documentation using a browser, you can click on the
keyword name to link to the start of the information for the parameter within
the command documentation file.
Description
column
This column shows the prompt text defined for the parameter,
a parameter qualifier, or a parameter element. Qualifiers are
normally used for qualified object names or qualified job names. Elements are
used to define multiple input fields for a single parameter. The description
for a qualifier or element contains the qualifier or element number within
the parameter.
Choices column
This
column shows the possible values for the parameter, qualifier, or element.
Predefined values, also known as special values, are
listed in this column. Predefined values typically begin with an asterisk
(*) or Q, followed by all uppercase letters.
If the parameter, qualifier, or element allows user-defined
values, a description of the parameter type appears in italics,
for example Name.
Default values may be defined for optional parameters.
Default values are shown in bold, underlined text, for example *NO .
For complex parameters that have multiple qualifiers or elements, or if
the parameter or element supports a list of values, any single value choices
are identified. Single value choices may be used only once.
Repeated values can be specified for some parameters.
For repeated values, this column indicates the number of allowed repetitions.

Notes column
This column shows additional
information about each parameter.
"Required" appears in this column to indicate required parameters,
parameters for which you are always required to specify an input value.
"Optional" appears in this column to indicate optional parameters,
parameters for which no input value is required.
"Key" appears in this column to indicate key parameters,
which are used by commands that have prompt override programs.
"Positional" appears in this column if the parameter is allowed to be
specified positionally (without the associated parameter keyword) in a command
string. The parameter's positional number appears following "Positional".

Parent topic: CL command documentation format