SKIPA (Skip After) keyword in printer files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

SKIPA (Skip After) keyword in printer files

You use this file-level, record-level,
or field-level keyword to specify that the printer device is to skip to a
specific line number after it prints one or more lines.

The format of the keyword is:
SKIPA(skip-after-line-number)The
parameter value is required and must be in the range 1 through 255.
If
you specify the keyword at the file level, you must option it with one or
more indicators. If you specify the keyword at the record or field level,
option indicators are optional. The specified skip is performed after each
record in the file prints.
If you specify the keyword at the record
level, skipping is performed after all the lines associated with the record
print and before any file-level SKIPA keywords are applied.
If you specify
the keyword at the field level, skipping is performed after the field prints.
Note: If
you do not use line numbers and do not specify skip or space keywords, overprinting
can result.
You can specify this keyword once at the file level,
once at the record level, and once for each field.
This keyword is valid
at the file level for all records, but not at the record level or the field
level for records that have line numbers specified (positions 39 through 41).
(The line number entries are flagged as errors.)
The SKIPA keyword is
not valid at either the field level or record level if the record format also
has the BOX, ENDPAGE, GDF, LINE, OVERLAY, PAGSEG, or POSITION keywords specified.
This
keyword is not allowed at the file level for files defined as DEVTYPE(*AFPDS)
on the CRTPRTF command.
Option indicators are valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the SKIPA keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00011A FIELDA 132A 1SKIPA(12)
A