ON OVERFLOW Phrases

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > STRING Statement > STRING Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > STRING Statement

ON OVERFLOW Phrases
Control is transferred to imperative-statement-1 when the pointer value
(explicit or implicit):
Is zero or less than 1
Exceeds a value equal to the length of the receiving field

When any of the above conditions occur, an overflow condition exists, and
no more data is transferred. The STRING operation is terminated and, if the
ON OVERFLOW phrase is specified, control is transferred to imperative-statement-1.
Otherwise, control is transferred to the end of the STRING statement. The
NOT ON OVERFLOW statement, if specified, is ignored.
If control is transferred to imperative-statement-1, execution continues
according to the rules for each statement specified in imperative-statement-1.
If a procedure branching or conditional statement that causes explicit transfer
of control is executed, control is transferred according to the rules for
that statement; otherwise, upon completion of the execution of imperative-statement-1,
control is transferred to the end of the STRING statement.
If an overflow condition does not occur during the execution of a STRING
statement, then control is transferred to the end of the STRING statement.
If an overflow condition does not occur and the NOT ON OVERFLOW phrase is specified, control
is transferred to imperative-statement-2. The ON OVERFLOW phrase, if specified,
is ignored.
If control is transferred to imperative-statement-2, execution continues
according to the rules for each statement specified in imperative statement-2.
If a procedure branching or conditional statement that causes explicit transfer
of control is executed, control is transferred according to the rules for
that statement. Otherwise, upon completion of the execution of imperative-statement-2,
control is transferred to the end of the STRING statement.
The ON OVERFLOW statement is not executed unless there was an attempt to
move in one or more characters beyond the end of identifier-3, or the initial
value of POINTER is less than 1.

Parent topic: STRING Statement