Structured Query Language

Structured Query LanguageLast Updated: 2025-10-07

Structured Query Language (SQL) is a standardized language
for defining and manipulating data in a relational database. In accordance
with the relational model of data, the database is perceived as a
set of tables, relationships are represented by values in tables,
and data is retrieved by specifying a result table that can be derived
from one or more base tables.

SQL statements are executed by a database manager. One of the functions
of the database manager is to transform the specification of a result
table into a sequence of internal operations that optimize data retrieval.
This transformation occurs when the SQL statement is prepared.
This transformation is also known as binding.

All executable SQL statements must be
prepared before they can be executed. The result of preparation is
the executable or operational form of the statement. The method
of preparing an SQL statement and the persistence of its operational
form distinguish static SQL from dynamic SQL.

Static SQLThe source form of a static SQL statement is
embedded within an application program written in a host language
such as COBOL, C, or Java™. The
statement is prepared before the program is executed and the operational
form of the statement persists beyond the execution of the program.
A
source program containing static SQL statements must be processed
by an SQL precompiler before it is compiled. The precompiler checks
the syntax of the SQL statements, turns them into host language comments,
and generates host language statements to call the database manager.
The
preparation of an SQL application program includes precompilation,
the preparation of its static SQL statements, and compilation of the
modified source program.

Dynamic SQLPrograms
containing embedded dynamic SQL statements must be precompiled
like those containing static SQL, but unlike static SQL, the dynamic
SQL statements are constructed and prepared at run time. The source
form of the statement is a character or graphic string that is passed
to the database manager by the program using the static SQL PREPARE
or EXECUTE IMMEDIATE statement. A statement prepared using the PREPARE
statement can be referenced in a DECLARE CURSOR, DESCRIBE, or EXECUTE
statement. The operational form of the statement persists for the
duration of the connection or until the last SQL program leaves the
call stack.
SQL statements embedded in a REXX application are dynamic SQL
statements. SQL statements submitted to the interactive SQL facility
and to the Call Level Interface (CLI) are also dynamic SQL statements.

Extended Dynamic SQLAn
extended dynamic SQL statement is neither fully static nor fully dynamic.
The QSQPRCED API provides users with extended dynamic SQL capability.
Like dynamic SQL, statements can be prepared, described, and executed
using this API. Unlike dynamic SQL, SQL statements prepared into a
package by this API persist until the package or statement is explicitly
dropped. For more information, see the Database and File APIs information
in the Programming category of the IBM i documentation.

Interactive SQLAn interactive SQL facility is associated with every
database manager. Essentially, every interactive SQL facility is an
SQL application program that reads statements from a workstation,
prepares and executes them dynamically, and displays the results to
the user. Such SQL statements are said to be issued interactively.
The interactive facilities for Db2 for
i include the Run SQL Scripts support of IBM® i Access Client Solutions, the STRSQL command, and the STRQM command. For more information about the interactive facilities for SQL, see the SQL Programming and Query Manager Use books.

SQL Call Level Interface and Open Database ConnectivityThe DB2® Call
Level Interface (CLI) is an application programming interface in which
functions are provided to application programs to process dynamic
SQL statements. DB2 CLI allows
users of any of the ILE languages to access SQL functions directly
through procedure calls to a service program provided by Db2 for
i. CLI programs can
also be compiled using an Open Database Connectivity (ODBC) Software
Developer's Kit, available from Microsoft or
other vendors, enabling access to ODBC data sources. Unlike using
embedded SQL, no precompilation is required. Applications developed
using this interface may be executed on a variety of databases without
being compiled against each of the databases. Through the interface,
applications use procedure calls at execution time to connect to databases,
to issue SQL statements, and to get returned data and status information.
The DB2 CLI interface provides many
features not available in embedded SQL. For example:

CLI provides function calls which support a consistent way to
query and retrieve database system catalog information across the DB2 family of database management
systems. This reduces the need to write application server specific
catalog queries.

Stored procedures called from application programs written using
CLI can return result sets to those programs.

For a complete description of all the available functions,
and their syntax, see SQL Call Level Interfaces (ODBC) book.

Java DataBase
Connectivity (JDBC) and embedded SQL for Java (SQLJ)
programsDb2 for
i implements two standards-based Java programming APIs: Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) and embedded
SQL for Java (SQLJ). Both can
be used to create Java applications
and applets that access DB2.
JDBC calls are translated to calls to DB2 CLI through Java native methods. You can access Db2 for
i databases through two JDBC drivers: IBM Developer
Kit for Java driver or IBM Toolbox
for Java
JDBC driver. For specific information about the IBM Toolbox
for Java
JDBC driver, see IBM Toolbox for Java.
Static
SQL cannot be used by JDBC. SQLJ applications use JDBC as a foundation
for such tasks as connecting to databases and handling SQL errors,
but can also contain embedded static SQL statements in the SQLJ source
files. An SQLJ source file has to be translated with the SQLJ translator
before the resulting Java source
code can be compiled.
For more information about JDBC and SQLJ
applications, refer to the Developer Kit for Java book.

OLE DB and ADO (ActiveX Data Object)IBM i
Access Client Solutions
includes OLE DB Providers, along with the Programmer's Toolkit to allow DB2 client/server application development quick and easy from the Windows client PC. For more information, refer to the IBM i
Access Client Solutions OLE DB provider in the IBM i documentation.

.NETIBM i
Access Client Solutions include a .NET Provider to allow DB2 client/server application development quick and easy from the Windows client PC. For more information, refer to the IBM i
Access Client Solutions .NET provider in the IBM i documentation.