Displaying a command definition

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands > Defining commands

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands

Displaying a command definition
To display or print the values that are specified as parameters
on the Create Command (CRTCMD) command, use the Display
Command (DSPCMD) command.
The DSPCMD command displays the following
information for your commands or for IBM-supplied commands:
Qualified command name. The library name is the name of the library in
which the command being displayed is located.
Qualified name of the command processing program. The library name is
the name of the library in which the command processing program resided when
the command was created if a library name was specified on the CRTCMD or CHGCMD command.
If a library name was not specified, *LIBL is displayed as the library qualifier.
If the CPP is a REXX procedure,
*REXX is shown.
Qualified source file name, if the source file was a database file. The
library name is the name of the library in which the source file was located
when the CRTCMD command was processed. This field is blank
if the source file was not a database file.
Source file member name, if the source file was a database source file.
If the CPP is a REXX procedure, the following information is shown:
REXX procedure
member name
Qualified REXX source
file name where the REXX procedure is located
REXX command
environment
REXX exit
programs

Qualified name of the validity checking program. The library name is
the name of the library in which the program resided when the command was
created if a library name was specified on the CRTCMD or CHGCMD command.
If a library name was not specified, *LIBL is displayed as the library qualifier.
Valid modes of operation.
Valid environments in which the command can be run.
The positional limit for the command. *NOMAX is displayed if no positional
limit exists for the command.
Qualified name of the prompt message file. The library name is the name
of the library in which the message file was located when the CRTCMD command
was run. *NONE is displayed if no prompt message file exists for the command.
Qualified name of the message file for the DEP statement. If a library
name was specified for the message file when the command was created, that
library name is displayed. If the library list was used when the command
was created, *LIBL is displayed. *NONE is displayed if no DEP message file
exists for the command.
Qualified name of the help panel group.
The help identifier name for the command.
Qualified name for the prompt override program.
Text associated with the command. Blanks are displayed if no text exists
for the command.
Indicator for whether the command prompt is enabled for conversion to
a graphical user interface.
Threadsafe indicator.
Multithreaded job action, if the command is not threadsafe.

You can use the Retrieve Command Information (QCDRCMDI) API
to return command attributes that were specified on the CRTCMD command
when the command was created. You can also use the Retrieve Command
Definition (QCDRCMDD) API to retrieve the structure of a command
definition object, including parameter information, inter-parameter dependency
information, and conditional prompting information.

Parent topic: Defining commands

Related information
Create Command (CRTCMD) command
Change Command (CHGCMD) command
Display Command (DSPCMD) command
Retrieve Command Information (QCDRCMDI) API
Retrieve Command Definition (QCDRCMDD) API