Change Cleanup (CHGCLNUP)

Change Cleanup (CHGCLNUP)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Change Cleanup (CHGCLNUP) command allows you to specify cleanup options controlling which objects on the system are to be deleted automatically. The cleanup options control the following:

- whether the cleanup operation is allowed

- when the cleanup operation is run each day

- which objects are cleaned up

Refer to the following parameter descriptions for a list of the objects that are cleaned up.

- User messages (USRMSG)

- System and workstation msgs (SYSMSG)

- Critical system messages (CRITSYSMSG)

- Job logs and system output (SYSPRT)

- System journals and logs (SYSLOG)

If cleanup is active when this command is used, the new values may or may not be used, depending on how far along the cleanup is. If cleanup is not active when this command is entered, the new values specified for this command are used the next time cleanup is started with the Start Cleanup (STRCLNUP) command or as described in the Basic system operations topic collection in the IBM i Information Center at http://www.ibm.com/systems/i/infocenter/.

Restriction: You must have all object (*ALLOBJ), security administrator (*SECADM), and job control (*JOBCTL) special authorities to use this command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
ALWCLNUP | Allow cleanup | *SAME, *YES, *NO | Optional
STRTIME | Time cleanup starts each day | Time, *SAME, *SCDPWROFF, *NONE | Optional
USRMSG | Number of days to keep | Element list | Optional
Element 1: User messages | 1-366, *SAME, *KEEP
SYSMSG | System and workstation msgs | 1-366, *SAME, *KEEP | Optional
CRITSYSMSG | Critical system messages | 1-366, *SAME, *KEEP | Optional
SYSPRT | Job logs and system output | 1-366, *SAME, *KEEP | Optional
SYSLOG | System journals and logs | 1-366, *SAME, *KEEP | Optional
JOBQ | Job queue | Single values: *SAME
Other values: Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Job queue | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
JRNRCVSIZ | Journal receiver size | 1-1000000000, *SAME, *KEEP | Optional
CALITM | Office calendar items | 1-366, *SAME, *KEEP | Optional
RUNPTY | Run priority | 1-99, *SAME | Optional

Top

Allow cleanup (ALWCLNUP)

Specifies whether the cleanup operation can be run on the system. If ALWCLNUP(*YES) is specified, cleanup can be started with the Start Cleanup (STRCLNUP) command or as described in the Basic system operations topic collection in the IBM i Information Center at http://www.ibm.com/systems/i/infocenter/. Also, if ALWCLNUP(*YES) is specified, you can change the cleanup operation by retrieving the program QEZUSRCLNP with the Retrieve CL Source (RTVCLSRC) command, changing the source, and compiling the CL program with the Create CL Program (CRTCLPGM) command.

*SAME
The existing value does not change. The initial value is *NO, but is set to *YES during a scratch install.

*YES
Cleanup can be run on this system.

*NO
Cleanup cannot be run on this system.

Top

Time cleanup starts each day (STRTIME)

Specifies the time the cleanup operation starts each day.

*SAME
The time of day does not change. The initial value is 220000.

*SCDPWROFF
The cleanup starts at the time of the scheduled power off. The power off takes place when the cleanup finishes, whether or not the cleanup was successfully completed.

*NONE
No cleanup start time is scheduled. The cleanup batch jobs are not submitted.

time
Specify the time of day when daily cleanup starts in the hhmmss format, where hh = hours, mm = minutes, and ss = seconds.
The time can be specified with or without a time separator:

- Without a time separator, specify a string of 4 or 6 digits (hhmm or hhmmss) where hh = hours, mm = minutes, and ss = seconds.

- With a time separator, specify a string of 5 or 8 digits where the time separator specified for your job is used to separate the hours, minutes, and seconds. If you enter this command from the command line, the string must be enclosed in apostrophes. If a time separator other than the separator specified for your job is used, this command will fail.

Top

User messages (USRMSG)

Specifies whether messages on the user profile message queues are cleaned up. This function deletes messages on the user message queues that have remained on the system longer than the number of days specified.

*SAME
The number of days does not change. The initial value is 7 days.

*KEEP
Messages are not deleted; they are kept.

1-366
Specify the number of days messages are kept before they are deleted.

Top

System and workstation msgs (SYSMSG)

Specifies whether messages on the QSYSOPR message queue and on work station message queues are cleaned up. The cleanup function deletes messages on the QSYSOPR message queue and the work station message queues that have remained on the system longer than the number of days specified.

*SAME
The number of days does not change. The initial value is 4 days.

*KEEP
Messages are not deleted; they are kept.

1-366
Specify the number of days to keep messages before they are deleted.

Top

Critical system messages (CRITSYSMSG)

Specifies whether the cleanup function deletes messages on the QSYSMSG message queue (if it exists) that have remained on the system longer than the number of days specified.

*SAME
The number of days does not change. The initial value is to not delete any messages (*KEEP).

*KEEP
Messages are not deleted; they are kept.

1-366
Specify the number of days to keep messages before they are deleted.

Top

Job logs and system output (SYSPRT)

Specifies whether job logs and other system output are cleaned up.

To prevent this output from being mixed with the user's output, the output queue of the printer file for job logs (QPJOBLOG) is changed to QUSRSYS/QEZJOBLOG to receive the job log. The output queue of printer files QPSRVDMP, QPPGMDMP, and QPBASDMP is changed to QUSRSYS/QEZDEBUG. All entries in QEZJOBLOG and QEZDEBUG that are older than the number of days specified on this parameter are deleted. This also removes pending job logs for jobs that completed more than the specified number of days ago.

If the cleanup operation is ended, the output queues named QEZJOBLOG and QEZDEBUG will continue to be used for job logs, service dumps, and program dumps.

*SAME
The number of days does not change. The initial value is 7 days.

*KEEP
Job logs and other system output are not deleted; they are kept.

1-366
Specify the number of days to keep job logs and other system output before they are deleted. This affects pending job logs as well as spooled job logs.

Top

System journals and logs (SYSLOG)

Specifies that system journals, history files, problem log files, and the alert database are cleaned up (deleted).

Journal receivers that are cleaned up:

Journal receivers that are used for one of the following system journals and are older than the number of days specified on this parameter are deleted.

ADJRNL0
Journal for application program driver files

QACGJRN
Journal for job accounting data

QAOSDIAJRN
Journal for DIA files

QASOSCFG
Journal for SOCKS configuration file

QCQJMJRN
Journal for Managed System Services

QDSNX
Journal for DSNX logs

QIPFILTER
Journal for IP filter rules

QIPNAT
Journal for Network Address Translation (NAT)

QLYJRN
Journal for Application Development Manager Transactions

QLYPRJLOG
Journal for project logs

QLZALOG
Journal for license management.

QMAJRN
Journal for work order requests

QO1JRN
Journal for Application Enabler OFC files

QPFRADJ
Journal for performance adjustment data

QSNADS
Journal for SNADS files

QSNMP
Journal for SNMP

QSXJRN
Journal for problem databases

QSZRAIR
Journal for Registered Application Information Repository.

QVPN0001
Journal for Virtual Private Network connections

QX400
OSI Message Services

QZCAJRN
Journal for SNMP agent

QZMF
Journal for QMSF job

Note: The journal receiver for job accounting (QACGJRN) is cleaned up only if Operational Assistant creates the journal.

History files that are cleaned up:

History files that meet both the following conditions are deleted:

- History files that are older than the number of days specified on this parameter.

- History files named QSYS/QHST*.

Problem log files and entries that are cleaned up:

Problem log entries older than the number of days specified on this parameter are deleted. The Delete Problem (DLTPRB) command is run to delete the problem log entries. When the DLTPRB command is run, the number of days specified on this parameter is used for the Days (DAYS) parameter of the DLTPRB command.

Note: If the number of days specified on this parameter is less than the number of days specified for the system value QPRBHLDITV (Problem Log Hold Interval), the value for QPRBHLDITV is used for problem log cleanup.

In addition to the problem log entries being deleted, the following problem log files in the QUSRSYS library are reorganized:

Note: The following files are in library QUSRSYS.

QASXCALL QASXFRU QASXNOTE
QASXPROB QASXPTF QASXYMP
QASXEVT

Alert database entries that are cleaned up:

Alert database entries older than the number of days specified on this parameter are deleted. The Delete Alert (DLTALR) command is run to delete the alert database entries. When the DLTALR command is run, the number of days specified on this parameter is used for the Days (DAYS) parameter of the DLTALR command.

In addition to the alert database entries being deleted, the file QUSRSYS/QAALERT is reorganized.

Program temporary fixes (PTFs) that are cleaned up:

- PTF save files and cover letters for previous releases are deleted if library QSMU does not exist on the system. If library QSMU exists on the system, no PTF save files and cover letters are cleaned up.

- Temporary objects with the following names are deleted:

QPZA000000 through QPZA999999

QPZR000000 through QPZR999999

QPZ1* and QPZ2* exit programs

- QAPZ* physical files in library QUSRSYS are reorganized to remove deleted records.

- For each PTF group, levels that exceed the PTFGRPLVL service attribute are deleted (lowest levels are deleted).

- Delete PTF groups for releases older than the current OS (only deleted if status is "Not applicable").

*SAME
The number of days does not change. The initial value is 30 days.

*KEEP
System journals and system logs are not deleted.

1-366
Specify the number of days to keep system journals and system logs before they are deleted.

Top

Job queue (JOBQ)

Specifies the name and library of the job queue to which the cleanup batch jobs are submitted.

Single values

*SAME
The job queue does not change. The initial value is *LIBL/QCTL.

Qualifier 1: Job queue

name
Specify the name of the job queue to which cleanup batch jobs are submitted.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the job's library list are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is used to locate the job queue. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, QGPL is used.

name
Specify the name of the library where the job queue is located.

Top

Journal receiver size (JRNRCVSIZ)

Specifies a number of kilobytes (KB) of storage. Each 1000 KB specifies 1,024,000 bytes of storage space. When the size of the space for the journal receiver is larger than the size specified by this value, Operational Assistant (OA) automatic cleanup function will detach it.

OA also automatically detaches receivers that are older than the number of days you have specified for the System journals and logs (SYSLOG) parameter.

Journal receivers are deleted only after they have been detached longer than the number of days specified for the SYSLOG parameter.

*SAME
The journal receiver size does not change. The initial value is 100000 KB.

1-1000000000
Specify a journal receiver size in kilobytes (KB) of storage. If this value is exceeded when OA automatic cleanup is run, the journal receiver will be detached.

Top

Office calendar items (CALITM)

In V5R1 and later releases, this parameter is not supported.

Top

Run priority (RUNPTY)

Specifies the run priority for the job. Run priority is a value ranging from 1 (highest priority) through 99 (lowest priority), that represents the importance of the job when it competes with other jobs for machine resources. This value represents the relative (not absolute) importance of the job. For example, a routing step with a run priority of 25 is not twice as important as one with a run priority of 50.

*SAME
The run priority does not change. The initial value is 55.

1-99
Specify the run priority that the routing step uses.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Keeping User Messages During Cleanup

CHGCLNUP ALWCLNUP(*YES) USRMSG(*KEEP) STRTIME(0700)

This command changes the cleanup options so that user messages are kept and not deleted when cleanup is performed. This command sets cleanup start time at 7:00 A.M.

Example 2: Cleanup of System Journals and System Logs

CHGCLNUP ALWCLNUP(*YES) SYSMSG(10) SYSLOG(3)

This command changes the cleanup options so that system messages are kept for ten days, and system journals and system logs are kept for three days, before being deleted.

Example 3: Changing Run Priority of Cleanup Job.

CHGCLNUP RUNPTY(50)

This command changes the run priority to 50.

Example 4: Changing Journal Receiver Size

CHGCLNUP JRNRCVSIZ(6000)

This changes the journal receiver size limit to 6000 KB of storage, (6144000 bytes).

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF1E2A
Unexpected error in QSYSSCD job.

CPF1E2B
Power scheduler and cleanup options not found.

CPF1E3C
Job queue &2/&1 not found.

CPF1E3D
Library &1 for JOBQ parameter not found.

CPF1E32
Not authorized to change cleanup options.

CPF1E33
Cleanup options or power schedule in use by another user.

CPF1E99
Unexpected error occurred.

Top