End CHT Server (ENDCHTSVR)

End CHT Server (ENDCHTSVR)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The End Clustered Hash Table Server (ENDCHTSVR) command is used to end the specified clustered hash table server on the cluster nodes specified by the NODE parameter. This will remove the specified nodes from the clustered hash table domain. If all of the cluster nodes defined in the clustered hash table domain are specified on the NODE parameter the server job will be ended on all cluster nodes and the clustered hash table server will be deleted from the cluster.

The clustered hash table server was started using the Start Clustered Hash Table Server (STRCHTSVR) command. If the clustered hash table server has any active connections, any future requests from those connections fail.

Restrictions:

- Cluster Resource Services must be active on the local node.

- All nodes specified in the NODE parameter must have Cluster Resource Services active.

- If an authorization list was specified when the server was started, the requesting user must have change (*CHANGE) authority to the authorization list to end the server.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
SERVER | Server | Communications name | Required, Positional 1
NODE | Node | Single values: *ALL
Other values (up to 20 repetitions): Communications name, *LOCAL | Optional

Top

Server (SERVER)

Specifies the clustered hash table server to be ended.

This is a required parameter.

name
Specify the name of the clustered hash table server to be ended.

Top

Node (NODE)

Specifies which nodes will end the clustered hash table server. The nodes specified will be removed from the clustered hash table domain. If all nodes in the clustered hash table domain are specified, the server will no longer exist in the cluster. Nodes in this list must be unique. The nodes must be active in the cluster.

*LOCAL
The clustered hash table server will be ended on the local node only. *LOCAL can be specified only once in the list of nodes specified.

*ALL
The clustered hash table server will be ended on all cluster nodes in the clustered hash table domain. If specified, *ALL must be the only value in the list.

name
Specify the name of the nodes to process the end request. Up to 20 cluster nodes can be specified.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Ending a Clustered Hash Table Server on the Local Node

ENDCHTSVR SERVER(CT0)

This command ends the clustered hash table server CT0 on the local node only.

Example 2: Ending a Clustered Hash Table Server on One of two Nodes in the Clustered Hash Table Domain

Domain for clustered hash table CT1 is FRED and BARNEY.

ENDCHTSVR SERVER(CT1) NODE(FRED)

This command ends the clustered hash table server CT1 on cluster node FRED. The clustered hash table server is still active on BARNEY.

Example 3: Ending a Clustered Hash Table Server on All Nodes

Domain for clustered hash table CT2 is FRED and BARNEY.

ENDCHTSVR SERVER(CT2) NODE(*ALL)

This command ends the clustered hash table server named CT2 on the local node (i.e. BARNEY) and node FRED. The clustered hash table will not exist in the cluster after this command runs.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPFBD03
End clustered hash table server failed.

Top