CONVERT-DATE-TIME

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Intrinsic Functions > Intrinsic Functions

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Intrinsic Functions

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension
CONVERT-DATE-TIME
The CONVERT-DATE-TIME function takes an item of class alphanumeric, numeric,
or date-time and returns a date-time item.
The function type is date-time.
The length of the returned value depends on the length allowed for the
format of the date, time, or timestamp item specified in argument-2 through
argument-4.

Format

>>-FUNCTION CONVERT-DATE-TIME----------------------------------->

>--(--argument-1--argument-2--+----------------------------+--)-><
    '-argument-3--+------------+-'    
    '-argument-4-'    

argument-1
Can be:
A date, time, or timestamp item
An item of class alphanumeric
A non-numeric literal
An item of class numeric integer.

argument-2
Specifies the category of the return value and must be one of the following
keywords:
DATE
TIME
TIMESTAMP.

If argument-1 is a date, time, or timestamp item, CONVERT-DATE-TIME
can only convert:
A date to a date, or a timestamp
A time to a time, or a timestamp
A timestamp to a date, a time, or a timestamp.

If argument-2 is TIMESTAMP, argument-3 can only be specified
with FORMAT OF special register, and argument-4 cannot be specified.

If argument-1 is a date-time item, a date-time move
is done.

If argument-1 is a numeric integer, the returned date-time
item will be right-justified and truncated, if it is longer than what is allowed
by the date-time format specified in argument-3.

If argument-1 is anything
else, the returned date-time item will be left-justified and truncated, if
it is longer than what is allowed by the date-time format specified in argument-3.

argument-3
Specifies the format of a date or time item. It must be:
A nonnumeric literal at least 2 characters long
The keyword LOCALE
The FORMAT OF special register.

For a list of valid literals and the rules that this argument must follow,
refer to the SPECIAL-NAMES FORMAT clause described in FORMAT Clause.
Argument-3 should represent a category that is referred to by argument-2.

If argument-3 is the keyword LOCALE, then the format of the date or
time is based on a LOCALE. If argument-4 is not specified, the current locale
is used, otherwise the locale associated with the mnemonic-name or the LOCALE
OF special register is used.

If argument-3 is not specified, the format
of the returned value is dependent on the SPECIAL-NAMES FORMAT clause. If
no format has been defined in the SPECIAL-NAMES paragraph, *ISO format is
used.
For TIMESTAMP, if argument-3 is not specified,
the default format of @Y-%m-%d-%H%M%S.@Sm is used.

argument-4
Must be a mnemonic-name associated with a LOCALE, or the LOCALE OF special
register.
Argument-4 must follow these rules:
If argument-4 is specified and argument-3 is a locale-based format literal,
for example contains %p, then the locale-based format literal would use the
locale specified in argument-4 to determine the actual value of the conversion
specifiers.
If argument-3 is a locale-based format literal (for example, contains
%p) and argument-4 is not specified, the locale-based format literal would
use the current locale to determine the actual value of the conversion specifiers.
If argument-3 is a locale-based format literal (for example, contains
%p), and the LOCALE OF special register is used to refer to a non-locale item,
the locale-based format literal would use the default locale to determine
the actual value of the conversion specifiers.

Related Information
Examples

Examples

Parent topic: Intrinsic Functions

End of IBM Extension End of IBM Extension