Start Disk Reorganization (STRDSKRGZ)

Start Disk Reorganization (STRDSKRGZ)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Start Disk Reorganization (STRDSKRGZ) command allows the user to start the disk reorganization function for one or more auxiliary storage pools (ASPs). The user specifies a time limit that the function is to run for each ASP being reorganized. A message will be sent to the system history (QHST) log when the reorganization function is started for each ASP.

Unused space will be collected together within the ASP. This allows future large disk allocations to be done more efficiently.

Restriction: You must have *ALLOBJ special authority to use this command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
ASP | ASP number | Single values: *ALL
Other values (up to 32 repetitions): 1-32 | Optional, Positional 2
ASPDEV | ASP device | Values (up to 32 repetitions): Name, *ALLAVL | Optional
TIMLMT | Time limit | 1-9999, *NOMAX | Required, Positional 1

Top

Auxiliary storage pool ID (ASP)

Specifies for which auxiliary storage pools the disk reorganization function is to be started.

*ALL
Disk reorganization will be started for the system ASP (ASP number 1) and all basic ASPs (ASP numbers 2-32) defined to the system.

auxiliary-storage-pool-number
Specify the ASP for which disk reorganization is to be started. Valid ASP numbers are 1 to 32. Up to 32 ASP numbers may be specified.

Top

ASP device (ASPDEV)

Specifies the name of the auxiliary storage pool (ASP) device for which the disk reorganization is to be started. A value must be specified for the ASP parameter or the ASPDEV parameter.

*ALLAVL
Disk reorganization will be started for all ASP devices that currently have a status of 'Available'.

auxiliary-storage-device-name
Specify the name of the independent ASP device for which disk reorganization is to be started. Up to 32 ASP device names may be specified.

Top

Time limit (TIMLMT)

Specifies the amount of time, in minutes, that the reorganization function is allowed to run. When the time limit is reached the function ends. The time limit specified is for each ASP being reorganized. For example, if ASP(*ALL) is specified and the machine has four ASP's configured and TIMLMT(60) is specified, four reorganization functions are started and each can run 60 minutes. If reorganization of any ASP has not completed after 60 minutes, it will be forced to end. This allows you to do disk reorganization incrementally.

*NOMAX
There is no time limit for the reorganization function. For a large ASP that has many small unused disk areas, the reorganization function can take a long time to complete. If you start the reorganization function with *NOMAX and you want to force the function to end, you can use the End Disk Reorganization (ENDDSKRGZ) command.

time-limit
Specify the time limit that the reorganization function is allowed to run. Valid values range from 1 to 9999 minutes.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Starting Disk Reorganization for ASP 1

STRDSKRGZ ASP(1) TIMLMT(*NOMAX)

This command allows the user to start the disk reorganization function for ASP 1. The reorganization function will run until the ASP has been reorganized or it is ended through the ENDDSKRGZ command.

Example 2: Starting Disk Reorganization with a Time Limit

STRDSKRGZ ASP(*ALL) TIMLMT(60)

This command allows the user to start the disk reorganization function for each ASP on the system. Each reorganization function will have a time limit of sixty minutes. After sixty minutes, any reorganization functions which have not completed will be ended.

Example 3: Starting Disk Reorganization for an ASP Device

STRDSKRGZ ASPDEV(MYASP1) TIMLMT(*NOMAX)

This command allows the user to start the disk reorganization function for ASP device MYASP1. The reorganization function will run until the ASP has been reorganized or it is ended through the ENDDSKRGZ command.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF1888
Disk reorganization for ASP &1 already started.

CPF1890
*ALLOBJ authority required for requested operation.

CPF1891
Disk reorganization cannot be started on an ASP with only one unit.

Top