ZONED

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

ZONED
The ZONED function returns a zoned decimal representation.
Numeric to Zoned Decimal
ZONED(numeric-expression,precision-integer,scale-integer)
String to Zoned Decimal
ZONED(string-expression,precision,scale,decimal-character)
Datetime to Decimal
ZONED(datetime-expression,precision,scale)
The ZONED function returns a zoned decimal
representation of:
A number
A character or graphic string representation of a decimal number
A character or graphic string representation of an integer
A character or graphic string representation of a floating-point
number
A character or graphic string representation of a decimal floating-point
number
A date
A time
A timestamp

Numeric to Zoned Decimalnumeric-expression
An expression that returns a value of any built-in numeric data
type.
precision
An integer constant with a value greater than or equal to 1 and
less than or equal to 63. The default for precision depends
on the data type of the numeric-expression:
5 for small integer
11 for large integer
19 for big integer
15 for floating point, decimal, numeric, or nonzero scale binary
31 for decimal floating point

scale
An integer constant that is greater than or equal to 0 and less
than or equal to precision. If not specified,
the default is 0.

The result is the same number that would occur if the
first argument were assigned to a decimal column or variable with
a precision of precision and a scale of scale. An error
is returned if the number of significant decimal digits required to
represent the whole part of the number is greater than precision-scale.
If the first argument can be null, the result can be null; if the
first argument is null, the result is the null value.
String to Zoned Decimalstring-expression
An expression that returns a value that is a character-string
or graphic-string representation of a number. Leading and trailing
blanks are eliminated and the resulting string must conform to the
rules for forming a floating-point, decimal floating-point, integer,
or decimal constant.
precision
An integer constant that is greater than or equal to 1 and less
than or equal to 63. If not specified, the default is 15.
scale
An integer constant that is greater than or equal to 0 and less
than or equal to precision. If not specified,
the default is 0.
decimal-character
Specifies the single-byte character constant that was used to
delimit the decimal digits in string-expression from
the whole part of the number. The character must be a period or comma.
If the second argument is not specified, the decimal point is the
default decimal separator character. For more information, see Decimal point.

The result is the same number that would result from CAST(string-expression AS
NUMERIC(precision,scale)).
Digits are truncated from the end if the number of digits to the right
of the decimal-character is greater than
the scale s. An error is returned if the
number of significant digits to the left of the decimal-character (the
whole part of the number) in string-expression is
greater than precision-scale. The default
decimal separator character is not valid in the substring if the decimal-character argument
is specified.
Datetime to Zoned Decimaldatetime-expression
An expression that returns a value of type DATE, TIME, or TIMESTAMP.
precision
An integer constant that is greater than or equal to 1 and less
than or equal to 63 that specifies the precision of the result. If
not specified, the default for the precision and scale depends on
the data type of datetime-expression as follows:Precision is 8 and scale is 0 for DATE. The result is a NUMERIC(8,0)
value representing the date as yyyymmdd.
Precision is 6 and scale is 0 for a TIME. The result is a NUMERIC(6,0)
value representing the time as hhmmss.
Precision is 14+tp and scale is tp for a TIMESTAMP(tp).
The result is a NUMERIC(14+tp,tp) value representing
the timestamp as yyyymmddhhmmss.nnnnnnnnnnnn.

scale
An integer constant that is greater than or equal to 0 and less
than or equal to precision. If not specified
and a precision is specified, the default is 0.

The result is the same number that would result
from CAST(datetime-expression AS NUMERIC(precision,scale)).
Digits are truncated from the end if the number of digits to the right
of the decimal separator is greater than the scale s.
An error is returned if the number of significant digits to the left
of the decimal separator (the whole part of the number) in datetime-expression is
greater than precision - scale.
The result of the function is a zoned decimal number with
precision of precision and scale of scale.
If the first argument can be null, the result can be null; if the
first argument is null, the result is the null value.
NoteSyntax alternatives: The CAST
specification should be used to increase the portability of applications
when the precision is specified. For more information, see CAST specification.
ExamplesAssume the host variable Z1 is a decimal host variable with a
value of 1.123.   SELECT ZONED(:Z1,15,14)
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
Returns
the value 1.12300000000000.
Assume the host variable Z1 is a decimal host variable with a
value of 1123.   SELECT ZONED(:Z1,11,2)
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
Returns
the value 1123.00.
Likewise,   SELECT ZONED(:Z1,4)
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
Returns
the value 1123.

Parent topic: Scalar functions