FOR statement

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > SQL control statements > SQL control statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > SQL control statements

FOR statement
The FOR statement executes a statement or group of statements
for each row of a table.
Syntaxlabel:FORfor-loop-nameAScursor-nameCURSORWITHOUT HOLDWITH HOLDFORselect-statementDOSQL-procedure-statement ; END FORlabel
Descriptionlabel
Specifies the label for the FOR statement. If the ending label
is specified, it must be the same as the beginning label. The label
name cannot be the same as the routine name or another label within
the same scope. For more information, see References to SQL labels.
for-loop-name
Specifies the label for the implicit compound-statement that
is generated to implement the FOR statement. It follows the rules
for the label of a compound-statement except that it cannot
be used with an ITERATE, GOTO, or LEAVE statement within the FOR statement.
The for-loop-name is used to qualify the column names returned
by the specified select-statement. It must not be the same
as any label within the same scope. For more information, see References to SQL labels. Either the for-loop-name or label can
be used to qualify other SQL variable names in the statement.
If for-loop-name is
specified, then it should be used to qualify any other SQL variable
names in the statement when debugging the SQL function, SQL procedure,
or SQL trigger.

cursor-name
Names a cursor.
WITH HOLD
Prevents
the cursor from being closed as a consequence of a commit operation.
A cursor declared using the WITH HOLD clause is implicitly closed
at commit time only if the connection associated with the cursor is
ended during the commit operation. For more information, see DECLARE CURSOR.
select-statement
Specifies the select statement of the cursor. Each expression
in the select list must have a name. If an expression is not a simple
column name, the AS clause must be used to name the expression. If
the AS clause is specified, that name is used for the variable and
must be unique.

SQL-procedure-statement
Specifies the SQL statements to be executed for each row of the
result table of the cursor. The SQL statements should not include
an OPEN, FETCH, or CLOSE specifying the cursor name of the FOR statement.

NotesFOR
statement rules: The FOR statement executes one or multiple statements
for each row in a result table of the cursor. The cursor is defined
by specifying a select list that describes the columns and rows selected.
The statements within the FOR statement are executed for each row
selected.
The select list must consist of unique column names and
the objects referenced in the select-statement must exist when
the function, procedure, or trigger is created.
The cursor specified in a FOR statement cannot be referenced
outside the FOR statement and cannot be specified on an OPEN, FETCH,
or CLOSE statement.
Handler warning: Handlers may be used to handle
errors that might occur on the open of the cursor or fetch of a row
using the cursor in the FOR statement. Handlers defined to handle
these open or fetch conditions should not be CONTINUE handlers as
they may cause the FOR statement to loop indefinitely.
ExampleIn this example, the FOR statement
is used to specify a cursor that selects 3 columns from the employee table.
For every row selected, SQL variable fullname is set to the
last name followed by a comma, the first name, a blank, and the middle
initial. Each value for fullname is inserted into table TNAMES.
BEGIN
DECLARE fullname CHAR(40);
FOR vl AS
c1 CURSOR FOR
SELECT firstnme, midinit, lastname FROM employee
DO
SET fullname =
lastname || ', ' || firstnme ||' ' || midinit;
INSERT INTO TNAMES VALUES ( fullname );
END FOR;
END;

Parent topic: SQL control statements