End Job Log Server (ENDLOGSVR)

End Job Log Server (ENDLOGSVR)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The End Job Log Server (ENDLOGSVR) command is used to end the job log server. The job log server writes job logs for jobs that are in a job log pending state. See Job log output (LOGOUTPUT) for additional information on which jobs are handled by the server. If more than one job log server job is active at the time this command is issued, all of the job log server jobs will be ended.

Restrictions:

- You must have job control (*JOBCTL) special authority to use this command.

Usage notes:

- If you only want to stop the production of a particular job log because, for example, it is very long or consuming too many resources, use the Change Job (CHGJOB) or End Job (ENDJOB) command instead of this command.
To determine which job a server is currently working on, display the server job's job log using the Display Job Log (DSPJOBLOG) command. Informational message, CPI1307, "Writing job log for &3/&2/&1" will be logged in the server job's job log while it is writing the job log for the job named in the message.

If you want to be able to write the complete job log for the job named in CPI1307 at a later time, change the job using the CHGJOB command specifying *PND on the LOGOUTPUT parameter.

If you do not need the job log and do not want to save it so it could be rewritten later, use the ENDJOB command on the job named in the CPI1307 message, specifying LOGLMT(0).

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
OPTION | How to end | *CNTRLD, *IMMED | Optional, Positional 1

Top

How to end (OPTION)

Specifies whether the job log server is ended in a controlled manner or immediately.

*CNTRLD
The server is ended in a controlled manner. Job logs which are in the process of being written are allowed to continue until they have completed.

*IMMED
The server is ended immediately. Jobs which are currently being processed by the job log server will not be removed from the system and the job logs currently being written will not be completed. The incomplete job logs will be rewritten from the beginning when a new job log server is started.

Top

Examples

ENDLOGSVR

This command ends the job log server in a controlled manner. Any job logs which are currently being written to spooled files by the job log server are allowed to complete.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF134B
Job log server not ended.

Top