BIGINT

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

BIGINT
The BIGINT function returns a big integer representation.
Numeric to Big Integer
BIGINT(numeric-expression)
String to Big Integer
BIGINT(string-expression)
Datetime to Big Integer
BIGINT(datetime-expression)
The BIGINT function returns a big integer
representation of:
A number
A character or graphic string representation of a decimal number
A character or graphic string representation of an integer
A character or graphic string representation of a floating-point
number
A character or graphic string representation of a decimal floating-point
number
A date
A time
A timestamp

Numeric to Big Integer numeric-expression
An expression that returns a numeric value of any built-in numeric
data type. The result is the same number that would occur if the
argument were assigned to a big integer column or variable. If the
whole part of the argument is not within the range of big integers,
an error is returned. The fractional part of the argument is truncated.

String to Big Integer string-expression
An expression that returns a value that is a character-string
or graphic-string representation of a number. The result is the
same number that would result from CAST( string-expression AS
BIGINT). Leading and trailing blanks are eliminated and the resulting
string must conform to the rules for forming a floating-point, decimal
floating-point, integer, or decimal constant. If the whole part of
the argument is not within the range of big integers, an error is
returned. Any fractional part of the argument is truncated.

Datetime to Big Integer datetime-expression
An expression that is one of the following data types:DATE. The result is a BIGINT value representing the date as yyyymmdd.
TIME. The result is a BIGINT value representing the time as hhmmss.
TIMESTAMP. The result is a BIGINT value representing the timestamp
as yyyymmddhhmmss. The fractional seconds portion of the timestamp
value is not included in the result.

The result of the function is a big integer. If the argument
can be null, the result can be null; if the argument is null, the
result is the null value.
NoteSyntax alternatives: The CAST
specification should be used to increase the portability of applications.
For more information, see CAST specification.
ExampleUsing the EMPLOYEE table, select the SALARY column in big integer
form for further processing in the application.   SELECT BIGINT(SALARY)
    FROM EMPLOYEE

Parent topic: Scalar functions