QHST history log

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Log messages > Log messages

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Log messages

QHST history log
The history log (QHST) consists of a message queue and a physical
file known as a log version.
Messages sent to the history log message queue (QHST) are written by the
system to the current log version physical file. The history log contains
a high-level trace of system activities such as system, subsystem, and job
information, device status, and system operator messages.
When a log version is full, a new version of the log is automatically created.
Each version is a physical file that is named in the following way:
Qxxxyydddn
where the following is true:
xxx
Is a 3-character description of the log type (HST)
yyddd
Is the Julian date of the first message in the log version
n
Is a sequence number within the Julian date (A through Z and 0 through
9)

Note: The number of records in each version of the history log is specified
in the system value QHSTLOGSIZ. There is also a value of *DAILY to allow a
new log version to be created each day instead of creating a new file based
only on size.
The text of the log version file contains the date and time of the first
message and last message in the log version. The date and time of the first
message are in positions 1-13 of the text; the date and time of the last message
are in positions 14-26. The date and time are in the format cyymmddhhmmss,
where:
c
Is the century guard digit
yymmdd
Is the date the message was sent
hhmmss
Is the time the message was sent

You can create a maximum of 36 log versions with the same Julian date.
If more than 36 log versions are created on the same day, the next available
Julian day is used for subsequent log versions. If some of the older log
versions are then deleted, it is possible to use the names again. Log versions
are out of order when sequenced by name if log versions are deleted and names
used again.
You can write a program to process the history log files
or use IBM-supplied functions to process the files. IBM provides the Display
Log (DSPLOG) CL command and the Open List of History Log
Messages (QMHOLHST) API. Because several versions of each log might
be available, you must select the log version to be processed. To determine
the available log versions, use the Display Object Description (DSPOBJD) command.
For example, the following DSPOBJD command displays what
versions of the history log are available:
DSPOBJD OBJ(QSYS/QHST*) OBJTYPE(*FILE)
You can delete logs on your system by using the delete option from the
display that is presented on the Work with Objects (WRKOBJ) command.
You can display or print the information in a log using the Display
Log (DSPLOG) command. You can select the information you want displayed
or printed by specifying any combination of the following:
Period of time
Name of job that sent the log entry
Message identifiers of entries

The following Display Log (DSPLOG) command displays
all the available entries for the job OEDAILY in the current day:
DSPLOG JOB(OEDAILY)
The resulting display is:
Display History Log Contents

Job OEDAILY started
Database file OEMSTR in library OELIB expired
Job OEDAILY abnormally ended
Job OEDAILY started
Job OEDAILY ended

Bottom
Press Enter to continue.

F3=Exit F10=Display all F12=Cancel

If you reset the system date or time to an earlier setting, or if you advanced
the system date and time by more than 48 hours, a new log version is started.
This ensures that all messages in a single log version are in chronological
order.
Log versions created on a release before V3R6M0 may contain entries that
are not in chronological order if the system date and time was reset to an
earlier setting. Therefore, when you try to display the log version, some
entries may be missed. For example, if the log version contains entries dated
1988 followed by entries dated 1987, and you want to display those 1987 entries,
you specify the 1987 dates on the PERIOD parameter on the Display
Log (DSPLOG) command but the expected entries are not displayed.
You should always use the system date (QDATE) and the system time (QTIME),
or you should specify the PERIOD parameter as follows:
PERIOD((start-time start-date) (*AVAIL *END))
The system writes the messages sent to a log message queue to the current
log version physical file when the message queue reaches a certain size or
when the Display Log (DSPLOG) command was used. If you
want to ensure the current log version is up-to-date, specify a fictitious
message identifier, such as ###0000, on the DSPLOG command.
No messages are displayed, but the messages in the message queue are copied
to the log version physical file to make it current.
Note: If a message is sent to QHST and the Display Log (DSPLOG) command
is done immediately, the DSPLOG command will show messages from the log version
physical file. Depending on the number of messages being copied to the log
version, your message may not be shown until a second Display Log
(DSPLOG) command is run later.
If you print the information in a log using the Display Log (DSPLOG) command
and output parameter *PRINT, (DSPLOG OUTPUT(*PRINT)), only one line from each
message is printed, using the first 105 characters of each message.
If you print the information in a log using the Display Log (DSPLOG) command
and output parameter *PRTWRAP, (DSPLOG OUTPUT(*PRTWRAP)), messages longer
than 105 characters are wrapped to include additional lines to a limit of
2000 characters.
If you print the information in a log using the Display Log (DSPLOG) command
and output parameter *PRTSECLVL, messages longer than 105 characters are wrapped
to include additional lines to a limit of 2000 characters. The second-level
message text is also printed if available, up to a maximum of 6000 characters.
If you display the information in a log using the Display Log
(DSPLOG) command, only 105 characters of message text are shown.
Any characters after 105 characters are truncated at the right.

Format of the history log
A database file is used to store the messages sent to a log message
queue on the system. Because all records in a physical file have the same
length and messages sent to a log have different lengths, the messages can
span more than one record.
QHST file processing
If you use a high-level language (HLL) program to process the QHST
file, keep in mind that the length of the message can vary with each occurrence
of a message.
QHST job start and completion messages
The system performs special formatting of the job start
and job completion messages.
QHST files deletion
Log version physical files accumulate on a system and you should
periodically delete old logs that are not needed.

Parent topic: Log messages