Monitor Message command

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Controlling processing within a CL program or CL procedure > Controlling processing within a CL program or CL procedure

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Controlling processing within a CL program or CL procedure

Monitor Message command
The Monitor Message (MONMSG) command
is used to monitor for escape, notify, or status messages that are sent to
the call stack of the CL program or procedure in which the MONMSG command
is used.
Note: By using the code examples, you agree to the terms of the Code license and disclaimer information.
Escape messages
are sent to a CL program or procedure by the commands in the CL program or
procedure and by the program or procedure they call. These escape messages
are sent to tell the programs or procedures that errors were detected and that
requested functions were not performed. CL programs or procedures can monitor
for the arrival of escape messages, and you can specify through commands how
to handle the messages. For example, if a CL program or procedure tries to
move a data area that has been deleted, an object-not-found escape message
is sent to the program or procedure by the Move Object (MOVOBJ) command.
Using
the MONMSG command, you can direct a program or procedure
to take predetermined action if specific errors occur during the processing
of the immediately preceding command. The MONMSG command
has the following parameters:
MONMSG MSGID(message-identifier) CMPDTA(comparison-data) +
EXEC(CL-command)
Each message that is sent for a specific error has a unique
identifier. You can enter as many as 50 message identifiers on the MSGID parameter.
(See the online help for messages and identifiers). The CMPDTA parameter allows
even greater specification of error messages because you can check for a specific
character string in the MSGDTA portion of the message. On the EXEC parameter,
you can specify a CL command (such as a Call Program (CALL), Do (DO), or a
Go To (GOTO)), which directs the program or procedure to perform error recovery.
In
the following example, the MONMSG command follows the Receive
File (RCVF) command and, therefore, is only monitoring for messages
sent by the RCVF command:
READLOOP: RCVF /* Read a file record */
MONMSG MSGID(CPF0864) EXEC(GOTO CMDLBL(EOF))
/* Process the file record */
GOTO CMDLBL(READLOOP) /* Get another record */
EOF: /* End of file processing */
The escape message, CPF0864, is sent to the invocation queue
of the program or procedure when there are no more records in the file to
read. Because the example specifies MSGID(CPF0864), the MONMSG monitors for
this condition. When it receives the message, the GOTO CMDLBL(EOF) command
is run.
You can also use the MONMSG command
to monitor for messages that are sent by any commands in a CL program or procedure.
The following example includes two MONMSG commands. The
first MONMSG command monitors for messages CPF0001 and
CPF1999; these messages can be sent by any commands that are run later in
the program or procedure. When either message is received from any of the
commands running in the program or procedure, control branches to the command
identified by the label EXIT2.
The second MONMSG command
monitors for the messages CPF2105 and MCH1211. Because no command is coded
for the EXEC parameter, these messages are ignored.
PGM
DCL
MONMSG MSGID(CPF0001 CPF1999) EXEC(GOTO EXIT2)
MONMSG MSGID(CPF2105 MCH1211)
.
.
.
ENDPGM
Message CPF0001 states that an error was found in the command
that is identified in the message itself. Message CPF1999, which can be sent
by many of the debugging commands, such as Change Program Variable
(CHGPGMVAR), states that errors occurred on the command, but it
does not identify the command in the message.
All error conditions monitored
for by the MONMSG command with the EXEC parameter specified
(CPF0001 or CPF1999) are handled in the same way at EXIT2, and it is not possible
to return to the next sequential statement after the error. You can avoid
this by monitoring for specific conditions after each command and branching
to specific error correction programs or procedures.
All error conditions
monitored for by the MONMSG command without the EXEC parameter
specified (CPF2105 or MCH1211) are ignored, and program or procedure processing
continues with the next command.
If the error occurs when evaluating
the expression on an IF command, the condition is considered false. In the
following example, MCH1211 (divide by zero) could occur on the IF command.
The condition would be considered false, and PROCA would be called.
IF(&A / &B *EQ 5) THEN(DLTF ABC)
ELSE CALLPRC PROCA
If you code the MONMSG command at the beginning
of your CL program or procedure, the messages you specify are monitored throughout
the program, regardless of which command produces these messages. If the EXEC
parameter is used, only the GOTO command can be specified. If the GOTO command
is run in your program, the subroutine stack will be reset.
You can
specify the same message identifier on a procedure-level or a command-level MONMSG command.
The command-level MONMSG commands take precedence over
the procedure-level MONMSG commands. In the following example, if message
CPF0001 is received on CMDB, CMDC is run. If message CPF0001 is received on
any other command in the program or procedure, the program or procedure branches
to EXIT2. If message CPF1999 is received on any command, including CMDB,
the program or procedure branches to EXIT2.
PGM
MONMSG MSGID(CPF0001 CPF1999) EXEC(GOTO EXIT2)
CMDA
CMDB
MONMSG MSGID(CPF0001) EXEC(CMDC)
CMDD
EXIT2: ENDPGM
Because many escape messages can be sent to
a program or procedure, you must decide which ones you want to monitor for
and want to handle. Most of these messages are sent to a program
or procedure only if an error is detected in the program or procedure. Others
are sent because of conditions outside the program or procedure. Generally,
a CL program or procedure needs to monitor for those messages that pertain
to its basic function and that it can handle. For all other messages, the i5/OS® operating system assumes an
error has occurred and takes default actions.

Parent topic: Controlling processing within a CL program or CL procedure

Related tasks
Defining message descriptions
Messages
Checking for the existence of an object

Related information
CL command finder
Monitor Message (MONMSG) command