DATA-INTO (Parse a Document into a Variable)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes > Operation Codes

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes

DATA-INTO (Parse a Document into a Variable)

Free-Form Syntax

DATA-INTO{(EH)}
receiver
%DATA(document {: options1 })
%PARSER(parser {: options2 });

DATA-INTO{(EH)}
%HANDLER(handlerProc : commArea)
%DATA(document {: options1 })
%PARSER(parser {: options2 });

Code

Factor 1

Extended Factor 2

DATA-INTO

 

receiver
%DATA(document {: options1 })
%PARSER(parser {: options2 })

DATA-INTO

 

%HANDLER(handlerProc : commArea)
%DATA(document {: options1 })
%PARSER(parser {: options2 })

The DATA-INTO operation imports the data from a structured document into an
RPG variable.
DATA-INTO is similar to XML-INTO except that XML-INTO can only work with XML documents,
while DATA-INTO can work with any structured document.
DATA-INTO also differs from XML-INTO in that DATA-INTO requires a parser that can
parse the data in the document.

The DATA-INTO operation passes the document text to the parser, which uses
callback functions to gradually pass the names and values of the data in the document
to the DATA-INTO operation.
The DATA-INTO operation places the information into the target RPG variable.

For information on writing a parser for the DATA-INTO operation,
see the Rational® Open Access: RPG Edition
topic.

The DATA-INTO operation can operate in two different ways:

Reading the data directly into an RPG variable

Reading the data gradually into an array parameter which is passed
to the procedure specified by %HANDLER(handlerProc).

The first operand specifies the target of the parsed data. It can
contain a variable name or the %HANDLER built-in function.

The second operand must be the %DATA built-in function, identifying
the document to be parsed and the options controlling the way
the information is used to set the RPG variable.
See %DATA (document {:options}) for more information
on %DATA.

The third operand must be the %PARSER built-in function, identifying
the program or procedure to do the parsing, and the parser-specific options.
See %PARSER (parser {: options}) for more information on %PARSER.

See Rules for transferring data to RPG variables for XML-INTO and DATA-INTO.

If the first operand is a variable name:

Parsing will be done directly into the variable.

It is optional for the parser to report the name
of the first item found.
However, if the parser does report the name of the first item found,
the name is expected to be the
same as the name of the variable.
This can be overridden using the path option.
For example, if the variable name is MYDS,
and the parser reports the name of the outermost structure as "order",
then "path=order" should be specified in the options for %DATA.

If the required information is more deeply nested within the document,
then the "path" option must be used to locate the required information.
For example, if name of the outermost structure in the document is "info",
and the required information is in a structure with the name "order" nested
within the "info" structure, then "path=info/order" should be
specified in the options for %DATA.

If the variable is a data structure, some subfields may be set
by the operation even if the operation ends in error.

If the variable is an array, the parsing will only search for
as much data as will fit in the array.
The "Number of Elements set by XML-INTO or DATA-INTO"
subfield in positions 372 - 379 of the PSDS will be set to the number
of elements successfully set by the operation. For an array of data
structures, this value will not include the element being set if a
parsing error occurs while parsing the data for the subfields of the
element; however, this array element may have some of its subfields
set by the operation.

If the first operand is the %HANDLER built-in function:

The procedure specified as the first operand of %HANDLER will
be called when the parser has parsed enough data to fill the specified
number of RPG array elements handled by the procedure. When the handler
returns, the parser will continue to parse the data until it has
parsed enough data to again fill the specified number of array
elements to call the handling procedure. This continues until the
document is completely parsed, or until the procedure returns a return
code indicating that the parsing should halt.
The final call to
the handling procedure may have fewer RPG array elements than the
handling procedure can handle. The handling procedure should always
refer to the "number of elements" parameter to ensure it does not
access array elements that do not have any data.

The communication-area
variable specified as the second operand of %HANDLER will be passed
by the parser as the first parameter to the handling procedure, allowing
the procedure coding the DATA-INTO operation to communicate with the
handling procedure, and allowing the handling procedure to save information
from one call to the next.

Each element of the temporary variable used to hold the array
parameter for the procedure will be cleared to its default value before
it is loaded from the data.

The path option must be used to specify
the name of the item within the document to search for.
See %DATA options for the DATA-INTO operation code and Expected format of data for DATA-INTO
for information about the path option.

The array-handling procedure may be called several times during
the DATA-INTO operaton. When the parser has found the number of elements
specified by the DIM keyword on the second parameter, the procedure
will be called. The final time the procedure is called may have fewer
elements than specified by the DIM keyword. If there are no elements
found, the procedure will not be called.
The handling procedure
must have the following parameters and return type:

Parameter number or return value

Data type and passing mode

Description

Return value

4-byte integer (10I 0)

Returning a value of zero indicates that parsing should continue;
returning any other value indictes that parsing should end.

1

Any type, passed by reference

Used to communicate between the DATA-INTO operation and the
handler, and between successive calls to the handler.

2

Array, or array of data structures, passed by read-only reference
(CONST keyword)

The array elements contain the data from the items specified
by the path option.

3

4-byte unsigned (10U 0), passed by value

The number of array elements in the second parameter that represent
data.

See %HANDLER (handlingProcedure : communicationArea ) for more information on %HANDLER.

Subfields of a data structure will be set in the order they appear
in the document; the order could be important if subfields overlap
within the data structure.

%NULLIND is not updated for any field or subfield during an DATA-INTO
operation.

Operation extender H can be specified to cause numeric data to
be assigned half-adjusted. Operation extender E can be specified to
handle the following status codes:

00352

Invalid DATA-INTO option

00354

Error preparing for parsing

00355

The parser program or procedure is not available.

00356

The document does not match the RPG variable.

00357

The parser detected an error in the document.

00358

The was an error in the information provided by the parser.

00359

An error occurred while running the parser program or procedure.

Note: Operation extenders can be specified only when Free-form
syntax is used.

For status 00357, the error code from the parser will be placed
in the subfield "External return code" in positions 368-371 of the
PSDS. This subfield will be set to zero at the beginning of the operation
and set to the value returned by the parser at the end of the operation.
The meaning of the error code is determined by the parser.

If an unknown, invalid or unrelated option is found in the options
parameter of the %DATA built-in function, the operation will fail with
status code 00352 (Error in DATA-INTO options).
The External return code
subfield in the PSDS will not be updated from the initial value of
zero, set when the operation begins.

The document is expected to match the RPG variable with respect
to the names of the items in the document.

The data for an RPG data structure is expected to have
items with the same name as the data structure and nested items
with the same names as the RPG subfields.

The data for an RPG array is normally reported as an array by the parser.
However, it is also valid to have a series of
items with the same name as the RPG array.

The path option can be used to set the name of the item
matching the name of the specified variable, but it cannot
be used to set the names of the items matching
a specified variable's subfields.
For example, if variable DS1 has
a subfield SF1, the item for DS1 can have any name, but the
item for SF1 must have the name "sf1" (or "SF1",
"Sf1", etc.,
depending on the case option).

When the document does not match the RPG variable, for example
if the document does not contain the default or specified path,
or if it is missing some items to match the subfields
of an RPG data structure, the DATA-INTO operation will fail with status
00356.
The allowextra, allowmissing,
and countprefix options can
be used to specify whether an item can have more or less data
than is required to fully set the RPG variable.

If the data for an item is not valid for the type of the RPG variable it matches,
the operation will fail with status 0356; the specific status code
for the assignment error will appear in the replacement text for message
RNX0356.

Tip: To avoid the DATA-INTO operation failing
because the data cannot be successfully assigned to RPG fields with
types such as Date or Numeric, the receiver variable can be defined
with subfields that are all of type character or UCS-2. Then the data
can be converted to other data types by the RPG program using the
conversion built-in functions %DATE, %INT, and so on.

See Examples of DATA-INTO parsers for information about
where you can find examples of parsers for the DATA-INTO operation.

To obtain a trace from the parser, set the QIBM_RPG_DATA_INTO_TRACE_PARSER
environment variable with a value of "*STDOUT".

ADDENVVAR QIBM_RPG_DATA_INTO_TRACE_PARSER VALUE('*STDOUT')

Note:
If the trace output does not show up immediately, or if it flashes too quickly to see, you can view the
standard output by calling the following ILE RPG program.
Compile the program with CRTBNDRPG.

**FREE
CTL-OPT ACTGRP(*NEW);
DCL-PR printf EXTPROC(*DCLCASE);
p POINTER VALUE OPTIONS(*STRING : *NOPASS);
END-PR;
DCL-PR getchar INT(10) EXTPROC(*DCLCASE) END-PR;
DCL-C EOL x'15';

printf (EOL);
getchar ();
return;

The following C® program will accomplish the same thing. Compile the program with CRTBNDC.
#include <stdio.h>
main()
{
printf("\n");
getchar();
}

%DATA options for the DATA-INTO operation code

Expected format of data for DATA-INTO

Examples of DATA-INTO parsers

Parent topic: Operation Codes