Defining substitution variables

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Defining message descriptions > Adding messages to a file > Adding messages to a file

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Defining message descriptions > Adding messages to a file

Defining substitution variables
On the FMT parameter on the Add Message Description
(ADDMSGD) command, you can specify substitution variables
for either first-level or second-level messages.
For example:
File &1 not found
contains the substitution variable &1. When the
message is displayed or retrieved, the variable &1 is replaced
with the name of the file that could not be found. This name is supplied
by the sender of the message. For example:
File ORDHDRP not found
Compare this to:
File not found
Substitution variables can make your message more specific
and more meaningful.
The substitution variable must begin with &
(ampersand) and be followed by n, where n is any number from 1 through
99. For example, for the message:
File &1 not found
the substitution variable is defined as:
FMT((*CHAR 10))
When you assign numbers to substitution variables,
you must begin with the number 1 and use the numbers consecutively.
For example, &1, &2, &3, and so on. However, you do
not have to use all the substitution variables defined for a message
description in the message that is sent.
For example, the message:

File &3 not available
is valid even though &1 and &2 are not used
in the messages. However, to do this, you must define &1, &2,
and &3 on the FMT parameter of the Add Message Description
(ADDMSGD) command. For the preceding message, the FMT parameter
could be:
FMT((*CHAR 10) (*CHAR 2) (*CHAR 10))
where the first value describes &1, the second &2,
and the third &3. The description for &1 and &2 must
be present if &3 is used. In addition, when this message is sent,
the MSGDTA parameter on the Send Program Message (SNDPGMMSG) command should
include all the data described on the FMT parameter. To send the preceding
message, the MSGDTA parameter should be at least 22 characters long.
For
the preceding message, you could also specify the FMT parameter as:

FMT((*CHAR 0) (*CHAR 0) (*CHAR 10))
Because &1 and &2 are not used in the message,
they can be described with a length of 0. Then no message data needs
to be sent. (The MSGDTA parameter on the SNDPGMMSG command needs to
be only 10 characters long in this case.)
An example of using &3
in the message and including &1 and &2 in the FMT parameter
is when &1 and &2 are specified on the DMPLST parameter. (The
DMPLST parameter specifies that the data is to be dumped when this
message is sent as an escape message to a program that is not monitoring
for it.)
The substitution variables do not have to be specified
in the message in the same order in which they are defined in the
FMT parameter. For example, three values can be defined in the FMT
parameter as:
FMT((*CHAR 10) (*CHAR 10) (*CHAR 7))
The substitution variables can be used in the message
as follows:
Object &1 of type &3 in library &2 is not available
If this message is sent in a CL procedure or program,
you can concatenate the values used for the message data such as:

SNDPGMMSG .....MSGDTA(&OBJ *CAT &LIB *CAT &OBJTYPE)
You must specify the format of the message data field
for the substitution variable by specifying the data type and, optionally,
the length on the Add Message Description (ADDMSGD) command.
The valid data types for message data fields are:
Binary (*BIN). A binary integer (either 2, 4, or 8 bytes long)
formatted as a signed decimal integer. Unless provided a specified
length, the system will assume that the binary integer is 2.
Character string (*CHAR). A string of character data not to be
enclosed in single quotation marks. Trailing blanks are deleted.
If length is not specified in the message description, the sender
determines the length of the field.
Convertible character string (*CCHAR). A string of character data
not to be enclosed in single quotation marks. Trailing blanks are
deleted. The length is always determined by the sender. If data of
this type is sent to a message queue that has a CCSID tag other then
65535 or 65534, the data is converted from the CCSID of the message
data to the CCSID of the message queue. Conversions can also occur
on data of this type when the data is obtained from the message queue
using a receive or display function. See CCSID support for
messages for more information about the use of message handlers
with CCSIDs.
Coordinated Universal Time date stamp (*UTCD).
An 8-byte field that contains a system date time stamp in Coordinated
Universal Time (UTC). The date in the output message is adjusted from
UTC by the time zone specified for the job. The date is formatted
by using the job definition attributes for date format QDATFMT and
date separator QDATSEP. When the 8-byte field is passed as hexadecimal
zero (X'0000000000000000'), the value is formatted as *N.
Coordinated Universal Time date and time stamp
(*UTC). An 8-byte field that contains a system date time stamp in
UTC. The output-formatted date time stamp contains the date followed
by one blank separator and the time. The date and time in the output
message are adjusted from UTC by the time zone specified for the job.
The date is formatted by using the job definition attributes for the
date format, QDATFMT, and the date separator, QDATSEP. The time is
formatted by using the job definition attribute for time separator
QTIMSEP. When the 8-byte field is passed as hexadecimal zero (X'0000000000000000'),
the value is formatted as *N.
Coordinated Universal Time time stamp (*UTCT).
An 8-byte field that contains a system date time stamp in UTC. The
time in the output message is adjusted from UTC by the time zone specified
for the job and is formatted by using the job definition attribute
for the time separator, QTIMSEP. When the 8-byte field is passed
as hexadecimal zero (X'0000000000000000'), the value is formatted
as *N.
Date and time stamp (*DTS). An 8-byte system date and time stamp
for which the date is to be formatted as specified in the QDATFMT
and QDATSEP system values and the time is to be formatted as hh:mm:ss.
Decimal (*DEC). A packed decimal number to be formatted as a
signed decimal number with a decimal point. Length must be specified;
decimal positions default to 0.
Hexadecimal (*HEX). A string to be preceded by the character
X and enclosed in single quotation marks; each byte of the string
is to be converted into two hexadecimal characters (0 through 9 and
A through F). If length is not specified in the message description,
the sender determines the length of the field.
Quoted character string (*QTDCHAR). A string of character data
to be enclosed in single quotation marks. Preceding and trailing
blanks are not deleted. If length is not specified in the message
description, the sender determines the length of the field.
Time interval (*ITV). An 8-byte time interval that contains the
time to the nearest whole second for various wait timeout conditions.
Unsigned binary (*UBIN). An unsigned binary integer (either 2, 4 or 8 bytes
long) formatted as an unsigned decimal integer. Unless provided a
specified length, the system assumes that the binary integer is 2.

The following data types are valid only in IBM-supplied message
descriptions and should not be used for other messages:
Space pointer (*SPP). A 16-byte pointer to a program object.
In a dump, the data in the object is formatted the same as the *HEX
type data. *SPP cannot be used as substitution text in a message;
it can only be used as part of the DMPLST parameter on the Add
Message Description (ADDMSGD) command.
System pointer (*SYP). A 16-byte pointer to a system object.
In a message or message help, the 10-character name of the object
is formatted the same as the *CHAR type data.

Parent topic: Adding messages to a file