Delete Override (DLTOVR)

Delete Override (DLTOVR)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: Conditional | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Delete Override (DLTOVR) command deletes one or more file overrides (including message file overrides) that were previously specified in a call level. For each overridden file named in the DLTOVR command, the override specified in the same call level as the DLTOVR command is deleted. When the command is specified interactively or outside a program in a batch job, the file overrides for the call level are deleted; when the command is used in a CL program, the file overrides for that program call level are deleted. A file override is the result of an override file command.

The DLTOVR command can delete all the file overrides for all the files in the same call level or the file overrides for specified files in the same call level. Only the file overrides in the call level in which the command is specified are deleted. For example, if an override command is specified in one program in a routing step, and then another program is called that also contains override commands, a DLTOVR command specified in the second program can delete only overrides that occur in that program. The DLTOVR command has no effect on the override command that was specified before the program was called. The deleted file overrides have no effect on subsequent uses of the file.

Restrictions:

- In a multithreaded job, this command may only be issued from the initial thread.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
FILE | Overridden file | Single values: *ALL
Other values (up to 50 repetitions): Name, *PRTF | Required, Positional 1
LVL | Call level | *ACTGRPDFN, *, *JOB | Optional

Top

Overridden file (FILE)

Specifies the names of the overridden files in the call level whose file overrides are deleted.

Single values

*ALL
All the file overrides that exist in the call level where this command is entered are deleted.

Other values (up to 50 repetitions)

*PRTF
The *PRTF file override exists in the call level where this command is entered is deleted.

name
Specify the names of one or more overridden files for which the overrides in the call level are deleted.

Top

Call level (LVL)

Specifies the call level of the file overrides deleted. There is a one-to-one correspondence between the call stack entries shown on the call stack from the Work with Job (WRKJOB) command and the call level for that call stack entry.

The first call stack entry name on the call stack (at the top of the list) is the call program or procedure at call level one. The second call stack entry name is the program or procedure at call level two. The last call stack entry name is the program or procedure at the highest call level for the job.

*ACTGRPDFN
The call level of the file overrides to be deleted is determined by the activation group of the program that calls this command. When the activation group is the default activation group, the call level of the overrides to be deleted equals the call level of the calling program. When the activation group is not the default activation group, the call level of the overrides to be deleted equals the activation group of the calling program.

*
The call level of the file overrides to be deleted is the call level of the program that called the DLTOVR command processing program. If the DLTOVR command is called through QCMDEXC, the call level is the same level as that of the caller of QCMDEXC.

*JOB
The file overrides scoped to the job are deleted. Only overrides at the job level with OVRSCOPE(*JOB) are deleted.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Deleting Call Level Overrides

- OVRDBF FILE(A) TOFILE(B)

- OVRPRTF FILE(C) TOFILE(D)

- OVRTAPF FILE(E) TOFILE(F)
:

- DLTOVR FILE(A C)

- DLTOVR FILE(*ALL)

If the first three override commands had been specified earlier in the call level, the files B, D, and F would override files A, C, and E. The fourth command deletes only the file overrides that affect files A and C. The last command deletes all the file overrides that exist in the call level, which in this case is the command overriding file E, the third command.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF180C
Function &1 not allowed.

CPF9841
Override not found at specified level.

Top