ACQUIRE Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > Procedure Division Statements

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension
ACQUIRE Statement
The ACQUIRE statement acquires a program device for a TRANSACTION
file.

ACQUIRE Statement - Format - TRANSACTION

>>-ACQUIRE--+-identifier-+--FOR--file-name---------------------><
    '-literal----'    

identifier, literal
The literal you specify, or the contents of the identifier, will
specify the program device name to be acquired by the specified file.
The literal must be nonnumeric and 10 characters or less in length.
The identifier must refer to an alphanumeric data item 10 characters
or less in length.
file-name
File-name must be the name of a file with an organization of TRANSACTION,
and the file must be open when the ACQUIRE statement is run. A compilation
error message is issued if the organization is not TRANSACTION.

For a description of conditions that must be met before a communication
device can be acquired, see the ICF Programming manual.
For a description of conditions that must be met before a display
station can be acquired, refer to the DB2® for
i section of the Database
and File Systems category in the IBM® i
Information Center at this
Web site - http://www.ibm.com/systems/i/infocenter/.
Successful completion of the ACQUIRE operation makes the program
device available for input and output operations. If the ACQUIRE is
unsuccessful, the file status value is set to 9H and any applicable
USE AFTER EXCEPTION/ERROR procedure is invoked.
Only one program device may be implicitly acquired when a file
is opened. If a file is an ICF file, the single implicitly acquired
program device is determined by the ACQPGMDEV parameter of the CRTICFF
CL command. If the file is a display file, the single implicitly acquired
program device is determined by the first entry in the DEV parameter
of the CRTDSPF CL command. Additional program devices must be
explicitly acquired.
A program device is explicitly acquired by using the ACQUIRE statement.
For an ICF file, the program device must have been defined to the
file with the ADDICFDEVE or OVRICFDEVE command before the file is
opened. For a display file, if the program device name is not the
name of the display device, then the device must have been specified
in the DEV parameter when the file was created, changed, or overridden,
and before the OPEN is issued for the file.
For more information on these CL commands for display stations,
see the CL and APIs section of the Programming category
in the IBM i
Information Center at
this Web site - http://www.ibm.com/systems/i/infocenter/. See the ICF Programming manual for information on
these CL commands for communication devices. The ACQUIRE statement
can also be used as an aid in recovering from I-O errors. For more
information on recovery procedures, see the section on "Communications
Recovery" in the IBM Rational® Development
Studio for i: ILE COBOL Programmer's Guide.

Parent topic: Procedure Division Statements

End of IBM Extension End of IBM Extension