Unicode considerations for database files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files

Unicode considerations for database files

Unicode is a universal encoding scheme for written characters
and text that enables the exchange of data internationally.

This topic discusses how to specify DDS positions
30 through 37 and positions 45 through 80 for describing database
files. Positions not mentioned have no special considerations for
Unicode.
A Unicode field can contain all types
of characters used on the IBM® i platform,
including double-byte character set (DBCS) characters. Unicode data
is composed of code units, which represent the minimal byte
combination that can represent a unit of text.
These transformation formats (encoding forms) of Unicode
are supported with physical and logical file DDS:

UTF-8 is an 8-bit encoding form designed for ease of use
with existing ASCII-based systems. UTF-8 data is stored in character
data types. The CCSID value for data in UTF-8 format is 1208. A
UTF-8 code unit is 1 byte in length. A UTF-8 character can be 1, 2,
3, or 4 code units in length. A UTF-8 data string can contain any
character, including surrogates and combining characters.

UTF-16 is a 16-bit encoding form designed to provide code
values for over a million characters, and a superset of UCS-2. UTF-16
data is stored in graphic data types. The CCSID value for data in
UTF-16 format is 1200. A UTF-16 code unit is 2 bytes in length.
A UTF-16 character can be 1 or 2 code units (2 or 4 bytes) in length.
A UTF-16 data string can contain any character, including UTF-16 surrogates
and combining characters.

UCS-2 is the Universal Character Set coded in 2 octets,
which means that characters are represented in 16-bits per character.
UCS-2 data is stored in graphic data types. The CCSID value for data
in UCS-2 format is 13488. UCS-2 is a subset of UTF-16, and can
no longer support all of the characters defined by Unicode. UCS-2
is identical to UTF-16, except that UTF-16 also supports combining
characters and surrogates. If you do not need support for combining
characters and surrogates, then you can choose to use the UCS-2 type,
because there is more database functionality available for it.

Note: In this topic, references to UTF-16 imply UCS-2 as well.