References to host variables

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Variables > Variables

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Variables

References to host variables
A host variable is a COBOL data item, an RPG field,
or a PLI, REXX,
C++, C, or Java™ variable that
is referenced in an SQL statement. Host variables are defined by statements
of the host language.
Host variables cannot be referenced in dynamic SQL statements;
instead, parameter markers must be used. For more information on parameter
markers, see Variables in dynamic SQL.
A host variable in an SQL statement
must identify a host variable described in the program according to
the rules for declaring host variables.
All host variables used in an SQL statement should be
declared in an SQL declare section in all host languages other than Java, REXX, and RPG. Variables do not have to be declared
in REXX. In Java and RPG, there is no declare
section, and host variables may be declared throughout the program.
No variables may be declared outside an SQL declare section with names
identical to variables declared inside an SQL declare section. An
SQL declare section begins with BEGIN DECLARE SECTION and ends with
END DECLARE SECTION.
For further information about using host variables, see
the Embedded
SQL programming topic.
A variable in the INTO clause of a FETCH, a SELECT INTO,
a SET variable, a GET DESCRIPTOR, or a VALUES INTO statement identifies
a host variable to which a value from a result column is assigned.
A variable in the GET DIAGNOSTICS statement identifies a host variable
to which a diagnostic value is assigned. A host variable in a CALL
or in an EXECUTE statement can be an output argument that is assigned
a value after execution of the procedure, an input argument that provides
an input value for the procedure, or both an input and output argument.
In all other contexts a variable specifies a value to be passed to
the database manager from the application program.
Non-Java variable references:The general
form of a variable reference in all languages
other than Java is:
:host-identifierINDICATOR:host-identifier
Each host-identifier must
be declared in the source program. The variable designated by the
second host-identifier is called an indicator
variable and must have a data type of small integer. Indicator
variables appear in two forms: normal indicator variables and extended
indicator variables.
The purposes of a normal indicator variable are to:
Specify a non-null value. A 0 (zero), or positive value of the
indicator variable specifies that the associated, first, host-identifier provides
the value of this host variable reference.
Specify the null value. A negative value of the indicator variable
specifies the null value.
On output, indicate that one of the following numeric conversion
errors: Numeric conversion error (underflow or overflow)
Arithmetic expression error (division by 0)
A numeric value that is not valid

A -2 value of the indicator variable indicates a null result
because of one of these warnings.
On output, indicate one of the following string errors: Characters could not be converted
Mixed data not properly formed

A -2 value of the indicator variable indicates a null result
because of one of these warnings.
On output, indicate one of the following datetime errors: Date or timestamp conversion error (a date or timestamp that is
not within the valid range of the dates for the specified format)
String representation of the datetime value is not valid

A -2 value of the indicator variable indicates a null result
because of one of these warnings.
On output, indicate one of the following miscellaneous errors:
Argument of SUBSTR scalar function is out of range
Argument of a decryption function contains a data type that is
not valid.

A -2 value of the indicator variable indicates a null result
because of one of these warnings.
On output, record the original length of a string if the string
is truncated on assignment to a host variable. If the string is truncated
and there is no indicator variable, no error condition results.
On output, record the seconds portion of a time if the time is
truncated on assignment to a host variable. If the time is truncated
and there is no indicator variable, no error condition results.

For
example, if :V1:V2 is used to specify an insert or update value, and
if V2 is negative, the value specified is the null value. If V2 is
not negative the value specified is the value of V1.
Similarly, if :V1:V2 is specified in a CALL, FETCH, SELECT
INTO, or VALUES INTO statement and the value returned is null, V1
is undefined, and V2 is set to a negative value. The negative value
is:
-1 if the value selected was the null value, or
-2 if the null value was returned due to data mapping errors in
the select list of an outer subselect. 1

If the value returned is not null, that value is assigned
to V1 and V2 is set to zero (unless the assignment to V1 requires
string truncation, in which case, V2 is set to the original length
of the string). If an assignment requires truncation of the seconds
part of time, V2 is set to the number of seconds.
If the second host-identifier is omitted, the host
variable does not have an indicator variable. The value
specified by the host variable :V1 is always
the value of V1, and null values cannot be assigned to the variable.
Thus, this form should not be used unless the corresponding result
column cannot contain null values. If this form is used and the column
contains nulls, the database manager will return an error at run-time
(SQLSTATE 23502).
Extended indicator variables are limited to
input host variables. Their purposes are:
Specify a non-null value. A 0 (zero) or positive value
specifies that the associated host identifier provides the
value of this host variable reference.
Specify the null value. A -1, -2, -3, -4, and -6 value specifies
the null value.
Specify the DEFAULT value. A -5 value specifies that the target
column for this host variable is to be set to its default value.
Specify an UNASSIGNED value. A -7 value specifies that the target
column for this host variable is to be treated as if it hadn't been
specified in the statement.

Extended indicator variables are only enabled if requested.
Otherwise all indicator variables are normal indicator variables.
In comparison to normal indicator variables, extended indicator variables
have no additional restrictions for where null and non-null values
can be used. Extended indicators can be used in indicator structures
with host structures. Restrictions on where the extended indicator
variable values of DEFAULT and UNASSIGNED are allowed apply uniformly,
no matter how they are represented in the host application. The DEFAULT
and UNASSIGNED extended indicator variables can only be used as an
expression containing a single host parameter or a
CAST of a single host parameter that is being assigned to a column.
Output indicator variable values are never extended indicator variables.
When extended indicator variables are enabled, indicator
variable values other than positive values, zero, and the six negative
values listed previously must not be used. The DEFAULT and UNASSIGNED
values must only appear in contexts where they are supported (INSERT,
MERGE, and UPDATE statements); they are not supported
in the CALL statement.
An SQL statement that references host variables in C,
C++, ILE RPG, and PL/I, must be within the scope of the declaration
of those host variables. For host variables referenced in the SELECT
statement of a cursor, that rule applies to the OPEN statement rather
than to the DECLARE CURSOR statement.
The CCSID of a string host variable is either:
The CCSID specified in the DECLARE VARIABLE statement, or
If a DECLARE VARIABLE with a CCSID clause is not specified for
the host variable, the default CCSID of the application requester
at the time the SQL statement that contains the host variable is executed
unless the CCSID is for a foreign encoding scheme other than Unicode (such
as ASCII). In this case, the host variable is converted to the default
CCSID of the current server.

Java variable
references:The general form of a host variable reference
in Java is:
:INOUTINOUTJava-identifier(Java-expression)
In Java,
indicator variables are not used. Instead, instances of a Java class can be set to a null value. Variables
defined as Java primitive types
cannot be set to a null value.
If IN, OUT, or INOUT is not specified, the default depends
on the context in which the variable is used. If the Java variable is used in an INTO clause, OUT
is the default. Otherwise, IN is the default. For more information
about Java variables, see IBM® Developer Kit for Java.
ExampleUsing the PROJECT table, set the
host variable PNAME (VARCHAR(26)) to the project name (PROJNAME),
the host variable STAFF (DECIMAL(5,2)) to the mean staffing level
(PRSTAFF), and the host variable MAJPROJ (CHAR(6)) to the major project
(MAJPROJ) for project (PROJNO) ‘IF1000'. Columns PRSTAFF and
MAJPROJ may contain null values, so provide indicator variables STAFF_IND
(SMALLINT) and MAJPROJ_IND (SMALLINT).
SELECT PROJNAME, PRSTAFF, MAJPROJ
  INTO :PNAME, :STAFF :STAFF_IND, :MAJPROJ :MAJPROJ_IND
  FROM PROJECT
  WHERE PROJNO = 'IF1000'

Parent topic: Variables

1 It should be noted that
although the null value returned for data mapping errors can be returned
on certain scalar functions and for arithmetic expressions, the result
column is not considered null capable unless an argument of the arithmetic
expression or scalar function is null capable.