Delete Network Interface Desc (DLTNWID)

Delete Network Interface Desc (DLTNWID)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Delete Network Interface Description (DLTNWID) command deletes the specified network interface descriptions. The network interface description must be varied off before this command is issued.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
NWID | Network interface description | Generic name, name | Required, Positional 1

Top

Network interface description (NWID)

This is a required parameter.

Specifies the name of the network interface descriptions being deleted. A specific network interface description or a generic network interface description must be specified.

network-interface-description
Specify the name of the network interface description being deleted.

generic*-network-interface-description
Specify the generic name of the network interface description to be deleted. A generic name is a character string that contains one or more characters followed by an asterisk (*). If a generic name of a network interface is specified, all network interface descriptions that have names with the same prefix as the generic network interface description name are deleted.

Top

Examples

DLTNWID NWID(THISONE)

This command deletes the network interface description of the network interface named THISONE from the system.

If the deleted network interface description has any line descriptions associated with it, they are detached and a message containing those line description names is sent to the system operator. The detached line descriptions are then associated with a new network interface description if their names are specified on the command that creates the network interface description.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF2625
Not able to allocate object &1.

CPF2634
Not authorized to object &1.

CPF27A4
Network interface description &1 not found.

CPF27A9
Network interface description &1 not varied off.

Top