End Commitment Control (ENDCMTCTL)

End Commitment Control (ENDCMTCTL)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: Yes | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The End Commitment Control (ENDCMTCTL) command ends the commitment definition associated with the activation group for the program that issued the command. Changes to commitment resources associated with the commitment definition are no longer made after this command is processed.

This command either ends the activation group level or the job level commitment definition associated with the activation group for the program that issued the command. A commitment definition is first established by the Start Commitment Control (STRCMTCTL) command.

If there are uncommitted changes for an interactive job, a message is sent asking the user whether the changes should be committed or rolled back before a commitment definition is ended. For a batch job, the changes are rolled back.

More information on the ENDCMTCTL command is in the Commitment control topic collection in the IBM i Information Center at http://www.ibm.com/systems/i/infocenter/.

There are no parameters for this command.

Top

Parameters

None

Top

Examples

ENDCMTCTL

This command specifies that the commitment definition established with the STRCMTCTL command is to end. The system determines if any changes have been made to the commitment resources after the last commitment boundary (at the last completed Commit (COMMIT) command or Rollback (ROLLBACK) command). If changes have been made for an interactive job, a message is sent asking the user whether the changes should be made permanent (committed) or removed (rolled back). For batch jobs, any changes are rolled back.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF83E4
Commitment control ended with resources not committed.

CPF835A
End of commitment definition &1 canceled.

CPF835B
Errors occurred while ending commitment control.

CPF835C
Commitment control ended with remote changes not committed.

CPF8350
Commitment definition not found.

CPF8355
ENDCMTCTL not allowed. Pending changes active.

CPF8356
Commitment control ended with &1 local changes not committed.

CPF8367
Cannot perform commitment control operation.

Top