Checking for the existence of an object

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Accessing objects in CL programs > Accessing objects in CL programs

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Accessing objects in CL programs

Checking for the existence of an object
Before attempting to use an object in a program, check to determine
if the object exists and if you have the authority to use it.
This is useful when a function uses more than one object at one
time.
To check for the existence of an object, use the Check
Object (CHKOBJ) command. You can use this command at any place
in a procedure or program. The Check Object (CHKOBJ) command
has the following format:
CHKOBJ OBJ(library-name/object-name) OBJTYPE(object-type)
Other optional parameters allow object authorization verification.
If you are checking for authorization and intend to open a file, you should
check for both operational and data authority.
When this command runs,
the system sends messages to the program or procedure to report the result
of the object check. You can monitor for these messages and handle them as
you want.
In the following example, the Monitor
Message (MONMSG) command checks only for the object-not-found escape
message. For a list of all the messages which the Check Object (CHKOBJ) command
may send see the online help information for the Check Object (CHKOBJ) command.
The Check
Object (CHKOBJ) command does not allocate an object. For many application
uses the check for existence is not an adequate function, the application
should allocate the object. The Allocate Object (ALCOBJ) command
provides both an existence check and allocation.
Use the Check
Tape (CHKTAP) or Check Diskette (CHKDKT) command
to ensure that a specific tape or diskette is placed on the drive and ready.
These commands also provide an escape message that you can monitor for in
your CL program.
CHKOBJ OBJ(OELIB/PGMA) OBJTYPE(*PGM)
MONMSG MSGID(CPF9801) EXEC(GOTO NOTFOUND)
CALL OELIB/PGMA
.
.
.
NOTFOUND: CALL FIX001 /*PGMA Not Found Routine*/
ENDPGM

Parent topic: Accessing objects in CL programs

Related tasks
Defining message descriptions
Messages

Related reference
Monitor Message command

Related information
Check Object (CHKOBJ) command