CURRENCY SIGN Clause

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Environment Division > Configuration Section > Configuration Section

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Environment Division > Configuration Section

CURRENCY SIGN Clause
The CURRENCY SIGN clause is used to define a currency string that
will be: Inserted into a numeric-edited data item when it is used as a
receiving item
Removed from a numeric-data item (de-edited) when determining
the unedited numeric value of the item.

In addition, the clause may also be used to specify the symbol
that is to be used to represent a currency string within a PICTURE
character-string. This symbol is referred to as the currency symbol.

CURRENCY SIGN Clause - Format

>>-CURRENCY--+------+--+----+--literal-6------------------------>
    '-SIGN-' '-IS-'    

>--+-----------------------------------------+-----------------><
   | (1) |   
   '-+------+--PICTURE SYMBOL--literal-7-----'   
    '-WITH-'    

Notes:IBM® ExtensionIBM ExtensionIBM Extension Note: The CURRENCY SIGN clause can be
repeated to allow for more than one currency string in a COBOL program.
However, the value of a currency symbol must not be duplicated.
End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension When the CURRENCY SIGN clause is
omitted, the dollar sign ($) must be used for both the value of the
currency string and the currency symbol. literal-6 without PICTURE SYMBOL phrase
Specifies the
value of the currency string as well as the character that
will be used as the currency symbol. It must be a single-character,
nonnumeric literal, and must not be any of the following: Digits zero (0) through nine (9)
Uppercase alphabetic characters A B C D P R S V X Z, or their
lower case equivalents
A space
Special characters * + - / , . ; ( ) = "
A figurative constant

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension The uppercase alphabetic character
E if the program defines an external floating-point item.
Uppercase alphabetic characters G and N if the program
defines a DBCS or national item.
Lowercase alphabetic characters e, g, and n.

End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension The currency symbol is case sensitive and must be specified
throughout your program with the same case as used in the CURRENCY
SIGN clause. However, unless the OPTION parameter value *NOMONOPIC,
or the PROCESS statement option NOMONOPIC is specified, an alphabetic
currency symbol used in a PICTURE character-string will be considered
to be uppercase, regardless of its actual representation. Therefore
an alphabetic currency symbol must always be entered as uppercase,
unless the NOMONOPIC option is specified.

literal-6 with PICTURE SYMBOL phrase
If
the PICTURE SYMBOL phrase is specified, literal-6 specifies the value
of the currency string and literal-7 represents the currency
symbol. Literal-6 may have any length (multiple characters) and may
consist of any characters from the computer's character set except
for the following: Digits zero (0) through nine (9)
Special characters * + - / . ,
A space or spaces without any other characters

literal-7
If
the PICTURE SYMBOL phrase is specified, literal-7 specifies the character
that will be used as the currency symbol. It must be a single-character,
nonnumeric literal, and must not have the same value as any
other currency symbol defined in the program. The value of this character
is subject to the same restrictions as those that apply to the currency
sign (literal-6) when the PICTURE SYMBOL phrase is omitted.

Parent topic: Configuration Section