Print Job Trace Report (PRTTRCRPT)

Print Job Trace Report (PRTTRCRPT)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Print Job Trace Report (PRTTRCRPT) command generates a report showing resources utilized, exceptions, and state transitions for batch jobs traced through time.

The report is based on the trace data collected by the Start Performance Trace (STRPFRTRC) command. This report runs against the specified member that was created when the Print Transaction Report (PRTTNSRPT) command was run with the *FILE option. The member resides in the QTRJOBT file of the QPFRDATA library.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
MBR | Member | Name | Required, Positional 1
LIB | Library | Name, QPFRDATA | Optional, Positional 2
TITLE | Title | Character value, *MBR | Optional, Positional 3
PERIOD | Time period for report | Element list | Optional
Element 1: | Element list
Element 1: Starting time | Time, *FIRST
Element 2: Starting date | Date, *FIRST
Element 2: | Element list
Element 1: Ending time | Time, *LAST
Element 2: Ending date | Date, *LAST
JOB | Job name | Name, PRTTRCRPT, *MBR | Optional
JOBD | Job description | Single values: *NONE
Other values: Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Job description | Name, QPFRJOBD
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB

Top

Member (MBR)

Specifies the performance data member used. This name should correspond to the member name specified when the Print Transaction Report (PRTTNSRPT) command was run with *FILE option.

This is a required parameter.

Top

Library (LIB)

Specifies the library where the performance data is located.

QPFRDATA
The performance data files are located in the IBM-supplied performance data library, QPFRDATA.

name
Specify the name of the library where the performance database files are located.

Top

Report title (TITLE)

Specifies the title for the report that is created.

*MBR
The text of the database member, which contains the performance data, is the report title.

character-value
Specify the title you want on your report with up to 50 characters of text, enclosed in apostrophes.

Top

Time period for report (PERIOD)

Specifies the period of time on which to report. The parameter consists of two lists of two elements each.

The symbol *N can be used to maintain the position in the parameter value sequence in place of an element that precedes the values that are specified. For example, PERIOD(*N (*N 091290)) specifies the ending date and uses the defaults for the other values.

Element 1: Starting time and date

Element 1: Starting time

*FIRST
Data records starting from the beginning of the day (00:00:00) are included.

time
Specify the time of the first data record to include in the report, using the format, hhmm or hhmmss, where hh is the hours, mm is the minutes, and ss is the seconds. Data collected prior to this time is not included in the report.
The time can be specified with or without a time separator:

- Without a time separator, specify a string of 4 or 6 digits (hhmm or hhmmss) where hh = hours, mm = minutes, and ss = seconds.

- With a time separator, specify a string of 5 or 8 digits where the time separator specified for your job is used to separate the hours, minutes, and seconds. If you enter this command from the command line, the string must be enclosed in apostrophes. If a time separator other than the separator specified for your job is used, this command will fail.

The time is in 24-hour format (13:00 is one p.m.); hours, minutes, and seconds values must be 2-digits in length, meaning zeros must be included.

Element 2: Starting date

*FIRST
Data records starting from the first day of the collection period are included in the report.

date
Specify the date of the first data record to include in the report. Data collected prior to the starting time on this date is not included in the report. The date must be entered in the same format as specified for the job.

Element 2: Ending time and date

Element 1: Ending time

*LAST
Data records through the end of the day (23:59:59) are included in the report.

time
Specify the time of the last data record to include in the report. Use the same format used for the starting time. Data collected after this time on the ending date is not included in the report.

Element 2: Ending date

*LAST
Data records through the last day of the collection period are included in the report.

date
Specify the date of the last record to include in the report. The date must be entered in the same format as specified for the job.

Top

Job name (JOB)

Specifies the job name to be used if submitting the job for batch processing.

Any value for this parameter is ignored if *NONE is specified for the Job description (JOBD) parameter.

Note: If JOBD(*NONE) is specified, job processing is performed interactively.

PRTTRCRPT
The command name is used for the job name.

*MBR
The name selected for the performance data member in the Member (MBR) parameter is used.

name
Specify the name to be used for any and all batch jobs.

Top

Job description (JOBD)

Specifies the job description used to submit the job for batch processing.

Single values

*NONE
A batch job is not submitted; processing continues interactively while the user waits. The user's workstation is not available for other use during this time, which could be significant for long jobs.

Qualifier 1: Job description

QPFRJOBD
The IBM-supplied job description, QPFRJOBD, is used.

name
Specify the name of the job description to be used.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the job's library list are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is used to locate the job description. If no current library entry exists in the library list, QGPL is used.

name
Specify the library in which the job description is located.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Printing a Job Trace Summary Report

PRTTRCRPT MBR(JUNE01)

This command submits a batch job that generates a Job Trace Summary report using the performance data found in the member JUNE01 of file QTRJOBT located in the default library QPFRDATA. The report covers the entire collection period, and the title of the report is set to the name of the database file member.

Example 2: Specifying a Report Time Period

PRTTRCRPT MBR(NOV15)
PERIOD(('0800:00' '11/15/99')
('2359:59' '11/15/99'))
TITLE('Job Trace Reports for November 15')

This command submits a batch job that generates a Job Trace Summary report. The performance data comes from member NOV15 of file QTRJOBT of the default library QPFRDATA. The report covers the time period 8:00 in the morning to midnight of one day.

Note: The format for the date and time is determined by the system values QDATFMT and, because separators are used in this example, QDATSEP.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

PFR5515
Cannot access trace data.

Top