Function invocation

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Functions > Functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Functions

Function invocation
Each reference to a scalar or aggregate function (either
built-in or user-defined) conforms to specific syntax.
The syntax is as follows: 1
function-invocationfunction-name(ALLDISTINCT1,parameter-name => expressionDEFAULTNULL)

Each reference to a table function conforms
to the following syntax:
TABLE(function-name(,parameter-name => expressionDEFAULTNULL))correlation-clause

In the above syntax, expression is
the same as it is for a scalar or aggregate function. See Expressions for other rules for expression.
An argument is a value passed to a function
upon invocation or the specification of DEFAULT. When a function is
invoked in SQL, it is passed a list of zero or more arguments. They
are positional in that the semantics of an argument are determined
by its position in the argument list. A parameter is a formal definition
of an input to a function. When a function is defined to the database,
either internally (a built-in function) or by a user (a user-defined
function), its parameters (zero or more) are specified, and the order
of their definitions defines their positions and their semantics.
Therefore, every parameter is a particular positional input to a function.
On
invocation, an argument is assigned to a parameter using either the
positional syntax or the named syntax. If using the positional syntax,
an argument corresponds to a particular parameter according to its
position in the list of arguments. If using the named syntax, an argument
corresponds to a particular parameter by the name of the parameter.
When an argument is assigned to a parameter using the named syntax,
then all the arguments that follow it must also be assigned using
the named syntax. The name of a named argument can appear only once
in a function invocation. In cases where the data types of the arguments
of the function invocation are not a match to the data types of the
parameters of the selected function, the arguments are converted to
the data type of the parameter at execution time using the same rules
as assignment to columns. This includes the case where precision,
scale, or length differs between the argument and the parameter. In
cases where an argument of the function invocation is the specification
of DEFAULT, the actual value used for the argument is the value specified
as the default for the corresponding parameter in the function definition.
If no default value was defined for the parameter, the null value
is used. If an untyped expression (a parameter marker, a NULL keyword,
or a DEFAULT keyword) is used as the argument, the data type associated
with the argument is determined by the data type of the parameter
of the selected function.
For SQL functions that are inlined and external
functions, all references to date, time, or timestamp special register
values in the argument list and in any default expressions will use
one clock reading. For SQL functions that are not inlined, any references
to date, time, or timestamp special register values in the argument
list will use one clock reading for any default expressions and a
separate clock reading for any references in the explicit arguments.
When the function is invoked, the value of each of its
parameters is assigned, using storage assignment, to the corresponding
parameter of the function. Control is passed to external functions
according to the calling conventions of the host language. When execution
of a user-defined aggregate or scalar function is complete, the result
of the function is assigned, using storage assignment, to the result
data type. For details on the assignment rules, see Assignments and comparisons.
Table functions can be referenced only in the FROM clause
of a subselect. For more details on referencing a table function,
see the description of the FROM clause in table-reference.

Parent topic: Functions

1 A few functions allow keywords
instead of expressions. For example, the CHAR function allows a list
of keywords to indicate the desired date format. A few functions use
keywords instead of commas in a comma separated list of expressions.
For example, the EXTRACT, TRIM, and POSITION functions use keywords.