CNTFLD (Continued-Entry Field) keyword

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > Double-byte character set considerations for DDS > Keyword considerations for display files that use DBCS

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > Double-byte character set considerations for DDS > Keyword considerations for display files that use DBCS

CNTFLD (Continued-Entry Field) keyword

You use this field-level keyword to
define a field as a continued-entry field.

Continued-entry fields are sets of associated entry fields that
are treated by the workstation controller as a single field during field-data
entry and editing. If the display device is not attached to a controller that
supports an enhanced interface for nonprogrammable workstations, each segment
of the continued entry field is treated separately when editing is performed
on the field.
The format of the keyword is: CNTFLD(width of column)
One
parameter must be specified.

DBCS considerationsDBCS data types have the following
restrictions:
J

The width of each continued-entry field segment must be an even number
of at least 4 bytes.

E

The width of each continued-entry field segment must be an even number
of at least 4 bytes.

O

The width of each continued-entry field segment must be at least 4 bytes
wide.

G

The width of each continued-entry field segment must be an even number
of at least 4 bytes.

Special consideration must be taken when defining the
length of the DBCS continued-entry field to account for the SO/SI character
pairs that must bracket the DBCS data on each segment of the continued-entry
field. The following total field lengths are required to ensure that the field
data fits into DBCS continued-entry fields:
J or E (with DBCS data)

Data Length + (Number of segments - 1) * 2

O

Data Length + (Number of segments - 1) * 3

G or E (with SBCS data)

Data Length

Note: The (Number of segments - 1) * 2 portion of the calculation
in the first equation allows for the SO/SI sets that must bracket the DBCS
data on the segments of the continued-entry field after the first segment.
The
(Number of segments - 1) * 3 portion of the calculation in the second equation
allows for the SO/SI sets that must bracket the DBCS data on the segments
of the continued-entry field after the first segment. Additional consideration
is made for the possibility that a NULL must be placed at the end of a segment
wherever a DBCS character is split.
Note: WRDWRAP cannot be used on DBCS
continued-entry fields.