VLDCMDKEY (Valid Command Key) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

VLDCMDKEY (Valid Command Key) keyword for display files

You use this file-level or record-level
keyword to specify that the IBM® i licensed
program is to set on the specified response indicator when any valid command
key other than the Enter key is pressed by the workstation user.

One use of this function is to perform a simple test to determine
if the workstation user has requested a function you want to watch for in
your program.
See System/36 environment considerations for display files for
information about how to specify the VLDCMDKEY keyword in files that are used
in the System/36 environment.
The
format of the keyword is: VLDCMDKEY(response-indicator ['text'])
The
response-indicator parameter is required.
The optional text is included
on the computer printout created at program compilation to explain the intended
use of the indicator. This text's only function in the file or the program
is a comment. The single quotation marks are required. If you specify more
than 50 characters between the single quotation marks, the text is truncated
to 50 characters on the program computer printout.
For a command key
to be considered valid, you must have activated the key by specifying it with
one of the following keywords:

Keyword
Comments

ALTHELP(CAnn)

With or without response indicator on the HELP keyword. Causes the command
attention key specified to be considered a valid command key.

ALTPAGEUP(CFnn)

With or without response indicator on the PAGEUP keyword. Causes the command
function key specified to be considered a valid command key if PAGEUP is also
specified.

ALTPAGEDWN(CFnn)

With or without response indicator on the PAGEDOWN keyword. Causes the
command function key specified to be considered a valid command key if PAGEDOWN
is also specified.

CAnn

With or without response indicator.

CFnn

With or without response indicator.

CLEAR

With or without response indicator.

HELP

Valid only when HELP key is passed back to application as follows:
HELP and HLPRTN (with or without a response indicator).

HELP (with or without a response indicator) and no help areas are defined
for any records currently being displayed.

HOME

With or without response indicator.

PAGEDOWN

With or without response indicator.

PAGEUP

With or without response indicator.

PRINT

Valid only when PRINT key is passed back to application as follows:
PRINT (with a response indicator).

PRINT (*PGM).

ROLLUP

With or without response indicator.

ROLLDOWN

With or without response indicator.

Option indicators are not valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the VLDCMDKEY keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R REC1 VLDCMDKEY(90 'Any valid key')
00020A CA01(91)
00030A CA02(92)
00040A CA03(93)
00050A CLEAR(94)
AIn this example, Indicator 90 is set on if any of four
keys (CA01, CA02, CA03, or Clear) is pressed.