Position 52 (Data Format)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Output Specifications > Field Description and Control Entries > Field Description and Control Entries

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Output Specifications > Field Description and Control Entries

Position 52 (Data Format)

Entry
Explanation

Blank

For numeric fields the data is to be written in zoned decimal
format.

For float numeric fields, the data is to be written in the external
display representation.

For graphic fields, the data is to be written with SO/SI brackets.

For UCS-2 fields, the data is to be written in UCS-2 format.

For date, time, and timestamp fields the data is to be written
without format conversion performed.

For character fields, the data is to be written as it is stored.

A

The character field is to be written in either fixed- or variable-length
format depending on the absense or presence of the *VAR data attribute.

C

The UCS-2 field is to be written in either fixed- or variable-length
format depending on the absense or presence of the *VAR data attribute.

G

The graphic field (without SO/SI brackets) will be written in
either fixed- or variable-length format depending on the absense or
presence of the *VAR data attribute.

B

The numeric field is to be written in binary-decimal format.

F

The numeric field is to be written in float format.

I

The numeric field is to be written out in integer format.

L

The numeric field is to be written with a preceding (left) plus
or minus sign, in zoned-decimal format.

N

The character field is to be written in indicator format.

P

The numeric field is to be written in packed-decimal format.

R

The numeric field is to be written with a following (right)
plus or minus sign, in zoned-decimal format.

S

The numeric field is to be written out in zoned-decimal format.

U

The numeric field is to be written out in unsigned integer format.

D

Date field — the date field will be converted to the format specified in positions 53-80 or to
the default file date format.

T

Time field — the time field will be converted to the format specified in positions 53-80 or to
the default file time format.

Z

Valid for Timestamp fields only.

This position must be blank if editing is specified.

The entry in position 52 specifies the external format of the data
in the records in the file. This entry has no effect on the format
used for internal processing of the output field in the program.

For numeric fields, the number of bytes required in the output
record depends on this format. For example, a numeric field with
5 digits requires:

5 bytes when written in zoned format

3 bytes when written in packed format

6 bytes when written in either L or R format

4 bytes when written in binary format

2 bytes when written in either I or U format. This may cause
an error at run time if the value is larger than the maximum value
for a 2-byte integer or unsigned field. For the case of 5-digit fields,
binary-decimal format may be better.
Float numeric fields written out with
blank Data Format entry occupy either 14 or 23 positions (for 4-byte
and 8-byte float fields respectively) in the output record.

A 'G' or blank must be specified for a graphic field in a program-described
file. If 'G' is specified, then, the data will be output without SO/SI.
If this column is blank for program-described output, then SO/SI brackets
will be placed around the field in the output record by the compiler
if the field is of type graphic. You must ensure that there is sufficient
room in the output record for both the data and the SO/SI characters.

Parent topic: Field Description and Control Entries