TRNSPY (Transparency) keyword in printer files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

TRNSPY (Transparency) keyword in printer files

This field-level keyword prevents code points that you have redefined
(using the DFNCHR keyword) from being interpreted as SCS printer control commands
when your program sends an output operation that prints the field that you
are defining.

This keyword has no parameters.
If you do
not specify the TRNSPY keyword for a field in which your program passes hexadecimal
data to an SCS printer, code points can be interpreted as SCS commands that
affect printer operation. A code point is one of the 256 values that you can
assign to a character in a character set. On the IBM® i operating
system, a code point is identified by a 2-digit hexadecimal number.
You
must specify the TRNSPY keyword when you specify:
The CVTDTA keyword in a printer file created with DEVTYPE(*SCS)

A hexadecimal value (with or without the DFT keyword explicitly specified)

In a file created with DEVTYPE(*IPDS), you need not specify the
TRNSPY keyword with the CVTDTA keyword. However, a warning message appears
stating that the DEVTYPE should not be changed to *SCS.
If
you specify TRNSPY in a file created with DEVTYPE(*AFPDS), a warning message
appears at creation time.
The TRNSPY keyword is valid only when the
data type is character.
When you specify the TRNSPY keyword with the
CVTDTA keyword, your program can place character data in the field and the IBM i operating system converts
it to hexadecimal data when the field is passed to the printer. Each pair
of hexadecimal digits corresponds to a code point in the character set of
your system. Using the DFNCHR keyword, you can define characters of your own
design for the 5224 Printer or 5225 Printer. Also, the printed length of the
field is one half the length you specify. Therefore, the length of the field
must be an even number.
If you specify the TRNSPY keyword without the
CVTDTA keyword, the field length you specify is the printed length.
This
keyword is supported only for the 5224 Printer and 5225 Printer.
Option
indicators are not valid for this keyword.

ExamplesThe following examples show how to specify
the TRNSPY keyword.

Example 1The following example shows how to specify
the TRNSPY keyword with the CVTDTA keyword. When your program passes character
data in a field, the IBM i operation
system converts it to hexadecimal data.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R RECORD SPACEB(1)
00020A FLD1 10 1TRNSPY CVTDTA
00030A FLD2 20 6TRNSPY CVTDTA
AThe program can pass character data in FLD1 and FLD2.
The IBM i operating system
converts it to hexadecimal data for the printer. Only the characters 0 through
9 and A through F are valid. Blanks are not valid.
The printed length
of FLD1 and FLD2 is one half the specified length (FLD1 is 5 positions long;
FLD2 is 10 positions long).
You must also specify the DFNCHR keyword
with this DDS in order to print user-defined characters.
The following
is how RECORD prints when the contents of FLD1 are 'C1C1C1C1C1' and the contents
of FLD2 are 'C2C2C2C2C2C2C2C2C2C2':
AAAAABBBBBBBBBB

Example 2The following example shows how to specify
the TRNSPY keyword without the CVTDTA keyword. In this example, your program
must pass hexadecimal data in the field.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R RECORD2 SPACEB(1)
00020A FLD3 5 1TRNSPY
00030A FLD4 10 6TRNSPY
AThe program must pass hexadecimal data in FLD3 and FLD4.
Only hexadecimal characters 0 through 9 and A through F are valid. Blanks
are not valid. Without the CVTDTA keyword, the printed length of both fields
is the specified length.