Predicates

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Language elements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements

Predicates
A predicate specifies a condition that is true,
false, or unknown about a given value,
row, or group.
The following rules apply to all types of predicates:
Predicates are evaluated after the expressions that are operands
of the predicate.
All values specified in the same predicate must be compatible.
The value of a variable may be null (that is, the variable may
have a negative indicator variable).
The CCSID conversion of operands of predicates involving two or
more operands are done according to Conversion rules for comparison:.
Use of a DataLink value is limited to the NULL predicate.

Row-value expression: The operand of several predicates
(basic, quantified, and IN) can be a row-value-expression:
(,expression)
A row-value-expression returns a single
row that consists of one or more column values. The values can be
specified as a list of expressions. The number of columns that are
returned by the row-value-expression is equal to the number
of expressions that are specified in the list.

Basic predicate
A basic predicate compares two values or compares
a set of values with another set of values.
Quantified predicate
A quantified predicate compares a value or values
with a set of values.
BETWEEN predicate
The BETWEEN predicate compares a value with a range of
values.
DISTINCT predicate
The DISTINCT predicate compares a value with another value.
EXISTS predicate
The EXISTS predicate tests for the existence of certain rows.
IN predicate
The IN predicate compares a value or values with a set
of values.
IS JSON predicate
The IS JSON predicate determines whether a value is in
a JSON format with the specified attributes.
JSON_EXISTS predicate
The JSON_EXISTS predicate determines whether JSON data
contains a JSON value that can be located using the specified sql-json-path-expression.
LIKE predicate
The LIKE predicate searches for strings that have a certain
pattern. The pattern is specified by a string in which the underscore
and percent sign have special meanings. Trailing blanks in a pattern
are a part of the pattern.
NULL predicate
The NULL predicate tests for null values.
REGEXP_LIKE predicate
The REGEXP_LIKE predicate searches for a regular expression
pattern in a string.
Trigger event predicates
A trigger event predicate is used in a triggered action
to test the event that activated the trigger. It is only allowed in
the triggered action of a CREATE TRIGGER statement.

Parent topic: Language elements