Reclaim Temporary Storage (RCLTMPSTG)

Reclaim Temporary Storage (RCLTMPSTG)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Reclaim Temporary Storage (RCLTMPSTG) command allows you to reclaim storage used by temporarily decompressed copies of panel groups, menus, display files, and printer files, thereby freeing up system storage space.

- Compressed Objects are objects that consume less storage space than decompressed objects. When a compressed object is used or a compressed program is called, a decompressed version of the object automatically becomes available to the user.

- Decompressed Objects are objects that use the system storage space allocated to them and are in a final, ready-to-use state.

- Temporarily Decompressed Objects. are temporarily decompressed copies of compressed objects. The system allocates storage space for the decompressed objects, which is consumed by the temporary copies until the system or the user determines that the temporary storage space needs to be reclaimed.
Temporary storage is automatically reclaimed when:

the RCLTMPSTG command is run

the next IPL is run

the object is used often enough to cause the system to permanently decompress it

When an object is permanently decompressed, the compressed version of the object is destroyed as well as any temporary forms of the object; however, compressed versions remain intact as long as the objects are temporarily decompressed.

Restrictions:

- This command is shipped with public *EXCLUDE authority and the QPGMR, QSYSOPR, QSRV, and QSRVBAS user profiles have private authorities to use the command.

- The user must have object management authority to the object specified and execute authority to the library.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
LIB | Library | Name, *ALL, *ALLUSR, *CURLIB, *LIBL, *USRLIBL | Optional, Positional 1
DAYS | Days unused | 1-366, 7, *NONE | Optional, Positional 2

Top

Library (LIB)

Specifies the name of the library from which storage is reclaimed. All temporarily decompressed objects that are in the library you specify on this parameter and that have not been used for more than the number of days you specify on the Days unused prompt (DAYS parameter) are reclaimed.

The possible library values are:

*ALL
All libraries in the system, including QSYS, are searched.

*LIBL
All libraries in the library list for the current thread are searched until the first match is found.

*USRLIBL
If a current library entry exists in the library list for the current thread, the current library and the libraries in the user portion of the library list are searched. If there is no current library entry, only the libraries in the user portion of the library list are searched.

*CURLIB
Only the current library is searched. If no current library entry exists in the library list, QGPL is used.

*ALLUSR
All user libraries are searched. All libraries with names that do not begin with the letter Q are searched except for the following:

#CGULIB #DSULIB #SEULIB
#COBLIB #RPGLIB
#DFULIB #SDALIB

Although the following Qxxx libraries are provided by IBM, they typically contain user data that changes frequently. Therefore, these libraries are considered user libraries and are also searched:

QDSNX QSYS2 QUSRINFSKR QWQCENT
QGPL QSYS2xxxxx QUSRNOTES QWQREPOS
QGPL38 QS36F QUSROND
QMPGDATA QUSER38 QUSRPOSGS
QMQMDATA QUSRADSM QUSRPOSSA
QMQMPROC QUSRBRM QUSRPYMSVR
QPFRDATA QUSRDIRCF QUSRRDARS
QRCL QUSRDIRCL QUSRSYS
QRCLxxxxx QUSRDIRDB QUSRVI
QSRVAGT QUSRIJS QUSRVxRxMx

- 'xxxxx' is the number of a primary auxiliary storage pool (ASP).

- A different library name, in the format QUSRVxRxMx, can be created by the user for each previous release supported by IBM to contain any user commands to be compiled in a CL program for the previous release. For the QUSRVxRxMx user library, VxRxMx is the version, release, and modification level of a previous release that IBM continues to support.

library-name
Specify the name of the library to be searched.

Top

Days unused (DAYS)

Specifies the number of days an object has not been used or changed. If a temporarily decompressed object has not been used or changed for more than the specified number of days, it is reclaimed. If it has been used or changed, it is left temporarily decompressed.

The possible values are:

7
Objects that have not been used or changed for more than seven days are reclaimed.

*NONE
The object is reclaimed regardless of the number of days it has not been used or changed.

days-unused
Specify the number of days. Valid values range from 1 through 366.

Top

Examples

RCLTMPSTG LIB(QGPL)

This command reclaims the space consumed by all of the temporarily decompressed copies of objects in library QGPL that have not been used or changed in the last 7 days.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF2110
Library &1 not found.

CPF2113
Cannot allocate library &1.

CPF2176
Library &1 damaged.

CPF3B07
&1KB storage reclaimed, &5 objects not processed.

CPF9838
User profile storage limit exceeded.

Top