Work with Supported Products (WRKSPTPRD)

Work with Supported Products (WRKSPTPRD)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Work with Supported Products (WRKSPTPRD) command displays a list of products currently supported. You can specify products, options, and language features to support for service requests and program temporary fix (PTF) orders.

Restrictions:

- This command is shipped with exclude (*EXCLUDE) public authority. The QPGMR, QSYSOPR, QSRV, and QSRVBAS user profiles are shipped with private authorities to use this command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
OUTPUT | Output | *, *PRINT | Optional, Positional 1
RLS | Release | Character value, *CURRENT, *ALL | Optional

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether the output from the command is shown at the requesting workstation or printed with the job's spooled output.

*
The output requested by an interactive job is shown on the display. Output requested by a batch job is printed with the job's spooled output.

*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output.

Top

Release (RLS)

Specifies the release level of products to work with. Multiple releases of products can be supported. Each release must be specified on a separate WRKSPTPRD command.

*CURRENT
Support information is displayed for the releases of those products known to be compatible with the currently installed release of the operating system. More than one release of a single licensed program might be displayed.

Note: Programming Request for Price Quotations (PRPQs), Licensed Program Offerings (LPOs) and non-IBM packaged products cannot be displayed or printed using *CURRENT. Specify the release level to display or print support information for these products.

*ALL
Support information for all releases of products is shown.

release-level
The release-level can be specified in one of the following two formats:
Specify the release-level in VxRyMz format, where Vx is the version number, Ry is the release number, and Mz is the modification level. The variables x and y can be a number from 0 through 9, and the variable z can be a number from 0 through 9 or a letter from A through Z.

Specify the release-level in vvrrmm format, where vv are any numeric characters 00 through 35 representing the version of the product, rr are any numeric characters 00 through 35 representing the release of the product, and mm can be 00 through 09 or 0A through 0Z representing the modification of the product.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Showing Menu Panel for Current Release Level

WRKSPTPRD

This command displays the Work with Supported Products panel for the current release level of each product.

Example 2: Showing a Menu for Products at a Specific Release Level

WRKSPTPRD RLS(V7R5M0)

This command displays the Work with Supported Products panel for products at the release level of Version 7, Release 5, Modification 0.

Example 3: Printing a List for All Supported Releases

WRKSPTPRD OUTPUT(*PRINT) RLS(*ALL)

This command prints a list of supported products and product options for all supported releases.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

SMU15A5
Unexpected error processing WRKSPTPRD command.

Top