Initialize BRMS (INZBRM)

Initialize BRMS (INZBRM)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Initialize BRMS (INZBRM) command performs several types of initialization. These are:

- Allows you to start BRMS product initialization after installation or update.

- Initializes all major files as well as establishing default policies and control groups

- Starts the subsystem for networking in a multi-system environment

- Allows you to reset BRMS and re-initialize all major files as well as establishing default policies and control groups

- Creates auxiliary storage pool (ASP) descriptions

- Allows you to re-register all BRMS functional authority elements with the operating system's registration facility. This option is used during a full system recovery prior to restoring user profiles

- Allows you to change the system name for BRMS media information to a new system name when restoring this information to a different system or logical partition

- Allows you to merge the BRMS database files contained on one library with the BRMS database files in another library

The INZBRM command is used to add a system to a BRMS network group. The INZBRM command must be processed from the system that you are adding to the network group.

Note: All references to system name assume that the system name and the system location name are the same and are used interchangeably in the help information. If they are not the same, use the system location name instead of the system name. You can review the setting for the system name and location name by using the Display Network Attributes (DSPNETA) command from any command line.

Systems that are members of the network group share BRMS media inventory. Additions, changes and removals from shared media inventory on any system in the network result in the same changes being made to all systems that are members of the network group.

When a system is added to a network group, the media information common to the network group is copied to the system that you are adding. The system's media information is replaced by the network group's media information.

When a system is first added, it is added in an inactive status on an active network group member.

Note: This is accomplished by adding the system to a network group list using the Change Network Group display which is found in the System Policy menu. When the system name is added to the list, it is shown in inactive status.

The INZBRM OPTION(*NETSYS) option changes the status from inactive to active and synchronizes media information.

The following shared BRMS information files are replaced on this system with the information from the incoming system:

- Media inventory

- Media classes

- Media policies

- Container inventory

- Container classes

- Move policies

- Network systems

- Storage locations

To use this command, you must have the Backup Recovery and Media Services for IBM i licensed program installed.

Restrictions:

- This command should not be used by control group *EXIT item processing as results will be unpredictable.

- All BRMS operations must be ended before running this command.

- All object authority is required to run the *RUNPRDINZ option.

- These additional restrictions apply when *MERGE is specified for the Option (OPTION) parameter:

All BRMS operations must be ended if library QUSRBRM is specified for the To library (TOLIB) parameter.

Ownership of the from library and its objects and the to library and its objects will be changed to QBRMS prior to the merge. The public authority will be changed to *USE.

Exclusive locks will be placed on the physical files in the from library objects and to library objects prior to the merge.

Logical files will be deleted from the from library and to libraries prior to the merge.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
OPTION | Option | *DATA, *CHGSYSNAM, *DEVICE, *MERGE, *NETSYS, *RESET, *RUNPRDINZ, *SETAUT, *FLASHCOPY, *VFYNET, *VFYENT, *VFYSYS, *MGRUDFS, *SQLSRVINZ, *NFSCTLG, *VFYNFSIMG | Optional, Positional 1
FROMSYS | From system | Character value | Optional
PRVSYSNAM | Previous system name | Character value, *LCL | Optional
NEWSYSNAM | New system name | Character value, *LCL | Optional
FROMLIB | From library | Name | Optional
MERGE | Merge | Single values: *ALL
Other values (up to 5 repetitions): *ARC, *BKU, *DEV, *HST, *MED, *MGR | Optional
STATE | State | *ENDBKU, *ENDPRC, *STRBKU, *STRPRC | Optional
TOLIB | To library | Name | Optional
KEYSTORE | Key store file | Values (up to 300 repetitions): Element list | Optional
Element 1: Source key store file | Name
Element 2: Translated key store file | Name
SYSNAME | System name | Character value | Optional
IMGCLG | Image catalog | Name | Optional
SAVTYPE | Type of save | *LIC, *OTHER | Optional

Top

Option (OPTION)

Specifies which of the types of initialization you want to perform.

*DATA
You are initializing BRMS. Default control groups, policies and tables are built based on the characteristics of the system that is being initialized. Additionally, new devices are added and ASPs are configured. Default ASP descriptions for ASPs defined to the system, but not already defined to BRMS are added.
When ASPs are configured, the following default information is added:

- ASP name value is *NONE, with the exception of ASP 1, which is given the ASP name of *SYSTEM.

- Low and high threshold values are set to *NONE.

- Text is "Entry created by BRM configuration".

If the parameter contains the special value *DATA, you must process the INZBRM command on the system on which you want to initialize for BRMS.

This option does not affect the saved history.

No parameters are used with this option.

*CHGSYSNAM
Allows you to change the system name stored in the BRMS media information. The system name is used to distinguish the media information of this system from the media information of other systems in a BRMS network. The system name is applied to the media information even if you do not use the BRMS networking feature. BRMS uses the system's local network ID (LCLNETID) and default local location name (LCLLOCNAME) for the system name. You can use the DSPNETA command to view these system network attributes.
You must change the system name of the media information to the current system name when recovering the BRMS media information to a different system or different logical partition having a system name different from the saved system name. You must specify a previous system name using the Previous system name (PRVSYSNAM) parameter and a new system name using the New system name (NEWSYSNAM) parameter.

The From library (FROMLIB) , To library (TOLIB) and Merge (MERGE) parameters are not used with this option.

*DEVICE
You are clearing device and media library information and re-initializing the files with the devices currently described on the system. In addition to clearing and re-initializing the device file, *DEVICE also performs the same functions as *DATA. Using the *DEVICE special value causes CSI objects and APPC device information to be removed from the BRMS inventory if no APPC device entries by the same name are found. Using the *DEVICE special value does not cause NET device information to be removed.
This option does not affect the saved history.

No parameters are used with this option.

*FLASHCOPY
Use this option to set the FlashCopy status for BRMS. You must specify State(STATE) parameter when using this option.

Note: The value for the Enable FlashCopy in the System Policy, will automatically be set to *YES, when this command is used.

*MERGE
Allows you to merge the BRMS database files contained in one library specified on the From library (FROMLIB) parameter with the BRMS database files in another library specified on the To library (TOLIB) parameter using options specified on the Merge (MERGE) parameter. This function may be useful when consolidating multiple systems onto a single system, or copying BRMS objects from library QUSRBRM to another library for subsequent archive. Refer to Appendix A in the Backup Recovery and Media Services book for additional guidance on using this option.

Note: Because of the extensive file processing involved in the merge operation, this could be a long running process depending on the merge options you select and the size of the merged files.

Note: If you intend to merge more than one library to the current system it is recommended that you merge these libraries to an intermediate library then perform a final merge of the intermediate library into the QUSRBRM library.

The From system (FROMSYS), Previous system name (PRVSYSNAM) and New system name (NEWSYSNAM) parameters are not used with this option.

*MGRUDFS
Set up and mount a default UDFS for each BRMS online migration eligible auxiliary storage pool to be used when migrating BRMS link lists.
No parameters are used with this option.

*NETSYS
BRMS files will be copied from the system specified in the From system (FROMSYS) parameter which should be in the network system group. Prior to using this option, use the Copy Media Information (CPYMEDIBRM) command to copy the current BRMS information from this system to a temporary file. After the INZBRM *NETSYS is complete, to merge the old information, use the CPYMEDIBRM again to copy the information back from the temporary file. This option will replace data in some current BRMS files.
Only the From system (FROMSYS) parameters is used with this option.

*NFSCTLG
Use this option to build BRMS default control groups which can be run to enable a Network Install using the Network File System (NFS).
No parameters are used with this option.

*RESET
You are resetting BRMS. When you use this option BRMS information is removed from your system and all major files are re-initialized. Using OPTION(*RESET) clears all major BRMS files and processes the INZBRM command OPTION(*DATA). This option erases all hierarchial storage management (HSM) information and resets all configurations to be consistent with those created when the product is first installed. Since APPC information is not automatically configured by BRMS, *RESET removes all APPC device information from BRMS including any CSI objects that may have been created.
No parameters are used with this option.

*RUNPRDINZ
Use this option to complete initialization of the BRMS program product after installation. The BRMS program product cannot be used until initialization is complete. Product initialization is only required once following a product update. Use this option if you receive message BRM40A2 - BRMS product initialization required when attempting to perform a BRMS operation after a product update.
BRMS product initialization can be a long running process. Performance can be optimized by running this option when there is little or no other activity on the server.

Note: All object authority is required to use this option.

No parameters are used with this option.

*SETAUT
Allows you to re-register all BRMS functional authority elements with the operating system's registration facility. This option is used during a full system recovery prior to restoring user profiles.
No parameters are used with this option.

*SQLSRVINZ
Use this option to enable BRMS SQL services that enables SQL interfaces to view, order and subset BRMS information.
No parameters are used with this option.

*VFYENT
Verifies this system is set up correctly and communicating with other systems in the BRMS enterprise network.
No parameters are used with this option.

*VFYNET
Verifies this system is set up correctly and communicating with other systems in the BRMS network.
No parameters are used with this option.

*VFYNFSIMG
Use this option to prepare the server image for a Network Install using the Network File System (NFS). The image catalog will be verified as an install image of the Licensed Internal Code only. The system will verify the Licensed Internal Code exists and it will be prepared and loaded onto a virtual optical device for the NFS install. You must specify the Image Catalog (IMGCLG) parameter when using this option.

*VFYSYS
Verifies this system is set up correctly and communicating with the system name specified in the System name (SYSNAME) parameter.

Top

From system (FROMSYS)

Specifies the name of any system which is already in the network group that you want the new system to join. The network media information on the system that you specify here is copied to your system. For example, if system A is a system that you want to add to the network and system B is an active member of a network group, you would specify system B in the From system (FROMSYS) parameter. The network media inventory from system B replace the media inventory on system A and system A has now become an active member of the network group.

The following media inventory files are copied from the active system in a network group to replace the media inventory files on the inactive system. You are notified before each file is replaced:

- Media inventory

- Media classes

- Media policies

- Container inventory

- Container classes

- Move policies

- Network systems

- Storage locations

location-name
Specify the name of the remote location associated with the from-system. The local system's network identifier, as seen by using the DSPNETA command, is used as the from-system's network identifier.

network-id.location-name
Specify the network identifier and the name of the remote location associated with the from-system. Specify these values using the format nnnnnnnn.cccccccc where nnnnnnnn is the network identifier and cccccccc is the remote location name.

Top

Previous system name (PRVSYSNAM)

Specifies the previous name of the system when changing the system name in the media information for recovery to a different system or different logical partition.

*LCL
Specifies that the local system name is to be used for the previous system name. BRMS will use this system's local network ID (LCLNETID) and default local location name (LCLLOCNAME) for the previous system name.

previous-system-name
Specifies the name that is to be used as the previous system name . If you specify this value, BRMS will use the local network ID (LCLNETID) and the specified name to create the previous system name.

network-id.location-name
Specify the local network identifier and default local location name that is to be used for the previous system name. Specify these values using the format nnnnnnnn.cccccccc where nnnnnnnn is the network identifier and cccccccc is the remote location name of the previous system.

Top

New system name (NEWSYSNAM)

Specifies the new name of the system when changing the system name in the media information for recovery to a different system or different logical partition.

*LCL
Specifies that the local system name is to be used for the new system name. BRMS will use this system's local network ID (LCLNETID) and default local location name (LCLLOCNAME) for the new system name.

new-system-name
Specifies the name that is to be used as the new system name . If you specify this value, BRMS will use the local network ID (LCLNETID) and the specified name to create the new system name.

network-id.location-name
Specify the local network identifier and default local location name that is to be used for the new system name. Specify these values using the format nnnnnnnn.cccccccc where nnnnnnnn is the network identifier and cccccccc is the remote location name of the new system.

Top

From library (FROMLIB)

Specifies the name of the source library containing the BRMS files with the records to be merged. This should be a version of the QUSRBRM library saved from another system and restored to the current system using a different library name.

Note: Prior to the start of the merge operation, the ownership of the library and all objects in the library will be changes to QBRMS and the public authority will be changed to *USE. Also, all logical files will be deleted from this library and all physical files will be converted to the current release.

from-library-name
Name of the library containing the BRMS database files which are to be merged. Library QUSRBRM cannot be specified as the from library.

Top

Merge (MERGE)

Specifies the options for the merge process. These options define the types of BRMS data to be merged.

Single values

*ALL
Specifies all BRMS media, device, history and policy files are to be merged.

Other values (up to 5 repetitions)

*ARC
Specifies all BRMS archive control group and archive list files are to be merged.

*BKU
Specifies all BRMS backup control group and backup list files are to be merged.

*DEV
Specifies all BRMS user devices such as Tivoli Storage Manager (TSM) of type *NET and user media library devices of type *USRMLB are to be merged.

*HST
Specifies all BRMS media information files containing backup, archive and migration history are to be merged.

*MED
Specifies all BRMS volume information and media related files are to be merged.

*MGR
Specifies all BRMS migration control group files are to be merged.

Top

State (STATE)

Specifies the FlashCopy state for this system. This is a required parameter when *FLASHCOPY is specified for the Option (OPTION) parameter.

*ENDBKU
Specifies that the backup has been completed on this clone system. The BRMS history information must be sent to the production system. Do not perform any BRMS activity on this clone system.

*ENDPRC
End the FlashCopy process on this production system. This indicates that the Enterprise Storage Server (ESS) FlashCopy function is complete and backup on the clone system is complete. BRMS activity may resume on this production system.

*STRBKU
Specifies that the clone system is ready to perform the backup for the production system. The BRMS history information will appear as if the backup had been performed on the production system.

*STRPRC
Start the FlashCopy process on this production system. This notifies BRMS that the production system's data is being copied via ESS FlashCopy and the backup is being performed on the clone system.This step is required prior to performing the ESS FlashCopy function. During this state, there should be no BRMS activity on the production system.

Top

To library (TOLIB)

Specifies the name of the target library containing the BRMS files which will receive the merge records.

Note: Always save library QUSRBRM before performing a merge operation when QUSRBRM is specified for the to library.

Note: You must end all BRMS operations before performing a merge operation when QUSRBRM is specified for the to library. The merge operation will fail if exclusive locks cannot be obtain ed for the files in the to library.

to-library-name
Name of the library containing the BRMS database files which will receive the merge records.

Top

Key store file (KEYSTORE)

Specifies the list of source key store files and corresponding translated key store files. Translated key store file names will be used for all encrypted backups being merged.

Element 1: Source key store file

Specifies the source key store file that was used for encrypted saves on the source system. This parameter must be specified for each Q1AKEY* in the QUSRBRM library from the source system.

key-store-file-name
A database file that stores the operational keys that were used for encrypted saves on the source system.

Element 2: Translated key store file

Specifies the translated key store files containing the key information which will be used for recovering encrypted saves on the target system. The specified translated key store file must exist in the library that is specified in the To library (TOLIB) parameter.

key-store-file-name
A database file that stores the operational keys that will be used for recovering encrypted saves on the target system.

Top

System name (SYSNAME)

Specifies the name of the system.

system-name
Specify the network identifier and remote location name. Specify these values using format nnnnnnnn.cccccccc where nnnnnnnn is the network identifier and cccccccc is the remote location name.

Top

Image catalog (IMGCLG)

Specifies the name of the image catalog to be verified.

image-catalog
Specify the name of the image catalog.

Top

Type of save (SAVTYPE)

Specifies the type of image catalog to be verified.

*LIC
The image catalog to be verified is for an install of the Licensed Internal Code only. The system will verify that the Licensed Internal Code image exists and can be loaded into the virtual optical device.

*OTHER
The image catalog to be verified is not for a specific type of install. This option will load the images from the image catalog in the order they exist. There will be no verification or sorting of images.

Top

Examples for INZBRM

Example 1: Initializing the BRMS Product

INZBRM OPTION(*RESET)

This command initializes BRMS resetting all values to the default value.

Example 2: Activating a System on the Network

INZBRM OPTION(*NETSYS) FROMSYS(MYNETID.MYSYSID)

This command activates system MYSYSID on network MYNETID into the BRMS network. The command is run on system MYSYSID.

Example 3: Register All Functional Authorities

INZBRM OPTION(*SETAUT)

This command registers all policies and functions currently defined in BRMS to the operating system's registration facility.

Example 4: Rename Media Information

INZBRM OPTION(*CHGSYSNAM) PRVSYSNAM(MYNETID.MYSYSID)
NEWSYSNAM(*LCL)

This command renames all BRMS media information currently owned by system MYSYSID on network MYNETID to the local network identified and default local location name as defined in the network attributes.

Example 5: Merge BRMS Database Files

INZBRM OPTION(*MERGE) FROMLIB(QUSRBRMSAV) TOLIB(QUSRBRM)
MERGE(*ALL)

This command merges the records found in the database files found in library QUSRBRMSAV with the records found in library QUSRBRM.

Example 6: Run BRMS initialization

INZBRM OPTION(*RUNPRDINZ)

The user has received exception BRM40A2 trying to run BRMS operations. This command completes the BRMS product initialization and allows for normal BRMS operations to continue.

Top

Error messages for INZBRM

*ESCAPE Messages

BRM13FF
Merge operation not successful. Reason &5

BRM1521
Connection to system &1 could not be established.

BRM1917
Feature not installed.

BRM1921
Feature not licensed.

BRM4040
Access denied for user &1.

BRM4041
Access denied for user &1.

BRM40A5
BRMS product initialization ended abnormally.

BRM40A6
BRMS product initialization already started.

BRM412B
Values not valid for parameters.

BRM6708
Command ended due to error.

CPF9800
All CPF98xx messages could be signaled. xx is from 01 to FF.

Top