Print Resource Report (PRTRSCRPT)

Print Resource Report (PRTRSCRPT)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Print Resource Report (PRTRSCRPT) command produces a device resource usage report from the performance data collected by Collection Services from the Operations Navigator interface. The report, which is written to the printer file QPPTITVR, shows device resource information organized by time interval. Resources may be selected for inclusion in the report or exclusion from the report, based on interval times.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
MBR | Member | Name | Required, Positional 1
TITLE | Report title | Character value, *MBRTXT, *BLANK | Optional, Positional 3
PERIOD | Time period for report | Element list | Optional
Element 1: | Element list
Element 1: Starting time | Time, *FIRST, *SELECT
Element 2: Starting date | Date, *FIRST
Element 2: | Element list
Element 1: Ending time | Time, *LAST
Element 2: Ending date | Date, *LAST
LIB | Library | Name, QPFRDATA | Optional, Positional 2
TYPE | Type of information | Single values: *ALL
Other values (up to 5 repetitions): *DISK, *CMN, *IOP, *LCLWS, *RMTWS | Optional
JOB | Job name | Name, PRTRSCRPT, *MBR | Optional
JOBD | Job description | Single values: *NONE
Other values: Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Job description | Name, QPFRJOBD
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB

Top

Member (MBR)

Specifies the performance data member used. This name should correspond to the member name specified on the TOMBR parameter of the Create Performance Data (CRTPFRDTA) command.

This is a required parameter.

Top

Report title (TITLE)

Specifies the title for the report that is created.

*MBRTXT
The text of the database member, which contains the performance data, is the report title.

*BLANK
No title is specified.

character-value
Specify a title of up to 50 characters, enclosed in apostrophes.

Top

Time period for report (PERIOD)

Specifies the period of time on which to report. The parameter consists of four elements: a starting time and date, and an ending time and date. Data collected prior to the starting time on the starting date and after the ending time on the ending date is not included in the report.

The symbol *N can be used to designate the default value for any of the four elements.

Element 1: Starting time and date

Element 1: Starting time

*FIRST
Data records starting from the beginning of the first day (00:00:00) of the collection period are included.

*SELECT
An interval selection screen is displayed from which you can select one or more intervals for inclusion. This value is valid only in the interactive environment. If this value is used, the remaining values of this parameter (starting time and date and ending time and date) are ignored.

time
Specify the time of the first data record to include in the report, using the format, hhmm or hhmmss, where hh is the hours, mm is the minutes, and ss is the seconds.
The time is specified in 24-hour format with or without a time separator:

- Without a time separator, specify a string of 4 or 6 digits (hhmm or hhmmss) where hh = hours, mm = minutes, and ss = seconds.

- With a time separator, specify a string of 5 or 8 digits where the time separator specified for your job is used to separate the hours, minutes, and seconds. If you enter this command from the command line, the string must be enclosed in apostrophes. If a time separator other than the separator specified for your job is used, this command will fail.

Element 2: Starting date

*FIRST
Data records starting from the first day of the collection period are included in the report.

date
Specify the date of the first data record to include in the report. The date must be entered in the format specified by the system value QDATFMT, and if separators are used, as specified by the system value QDATSEP.

Element 2: Ending time and date

Element 1: Ending time

*LAST
Data records through the end of the day (23:59:59) are included in the report.

time
Specify the time of the last data record to include in the report. Use the same format used for the starting time.

Element 2: Ending date

*LAST
Data records through the last day of the collection period are included in the report.

date
Specify the date of the last record to include in the report. The date must be entered in the format specified by the system value QDATFMT, and if separators are used, as specified by the system value QDATSEP.

Top

Library (LIB)

Specifies the library where the performance data is located.

QPFRDATA
The performance data files are located in the IBM-supplied performance data library, QPFRDATA.

name
Specify the name of the library where the performance database files are located.

Top

Type of information (TYPE)

Specifies the sections of the report that you want to print.

*ALL
All sections of the report are printed.

*DISK
Specifies that you want to print the Disk Activity section.

*CMN
Specifies that you want to print the Communications section.

*IOP
Specifies that you want to print the IOP Utilization section.

*LCLWS
Specifies that you want to print the Local Work Stations section.

*RMTWS
Specifies that you want to print the Remote Work Stations section.

Top

Job name (JOB)

Specifies the job name to be used if submitting the job for batch processing.

Any value for this parameter is ignored if *NONE is specified for the Job description (JOBD) parameter.

Note: If JOBD(*NONE) is specified, job processing is performed interactively.

PRTRSCRPT
The command name is used for the job name.

*MBR
The name selected for the performance data member in the Member (MBR) parameter is used.

name
Specify the name to be used for any and all batch jobs.

Top

Job description (JOBD)

Specifies the job description used to submit the job for batch processing.

Single values

*NONE
A batch job is not submitted; processing continues interactively while the user waits. The user's workstation is not available for other use during this time, which could be significant for long jobs.

Qualifier 1: Job description

QPFRJOBD
The IBM-supplied job description, QPFRJOBD, is used.

name
Specify the name of the job description to be used.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the job's library list are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the job is used to locate the job description. If no current library entry exists in the library list, QGPL is used.

name
Specify the library in which the job description is located.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Printing a Report

PRTRSCRPT MBR(DTA071588A)

This command submits a batch job to print a report on all resources in all intervals in the member DTA071588A of performance data files in library QPFRDATA. The report title is taken from the text of that member.

Example 2: Selecting Intervals to Include in Report

PRTRSCRPT MBR(DTA071588A) PERIOD(*SELECT)

This command submits a job to print a report from the same data, but first shows a screen from which the user interactively select which intervals to include.

Example 3: Specifying Data Collection Time Period

PRTRSCRPT MBR(DTA071588A) PERIOD((2330)(0130))

This command submits a job to print a report on the data collected from 11:30 PM on the first day of collection through 1:30 AM on the last day of collection.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

PFR1010
Cannot process request because of missing data.

PFR3002
Cannot print report because of missing data.

PFR3004
Incorrect measurement interval specified.

PFR3006
Measurement interval specified is not valid.

PFR3101
The SLTJOB and OMTJOB parameters are mutually exclusive.

PFR3102
SLTUSRID and OMTUSRID parameters cannot both be specified.

PFR3103
SLTPOOLS and OMTPOOLS parameters cannot both be specified.

PFR3104
SLTSBS and OMTSBS parameters cannot both be specified.

PFR3105
SLTLINE and OMTLINE parameters cannot both be specified.

PFR3106
SLTCTL and OMTCTL parameters cannot both be specified.

PFR3107
SLTFCNARA and OMTFCNARA parameters cannot both be specified.

PFR3108
SLTLOC and OMTLOC parameters cannot both be specified.

PFR3111
Functional area &1 does not exist.

PFR5501
Performance data file(s) are not upward compatible.

PFR5502
Performance data file(s) are not downward compatible.

PFR9005
YAXIS(*TIME) must be specified.

PFR9042
SLTUSER and OMTUSER parameters cannot both be specified.

PFR9048
Cannot display graph because of missing data.

Top