Arithmetic Operations

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operations > Operations

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operations

Arithmetic Operations

The arithmetic operations are shown in the following table.

Table 1. Arithmetic Operations.

Operation

Traditional Syntax

Free-Form Syntax

Absolute Value

 

%ABS (Absolute Value of Expression)

Add

ADD (Add)

+ operator

Divide

DIV (Divide)

/ operator or %DIV (Return Integer Portion of Quotient)

Division Remainder

MVR (Move Remainder)

%REM (Return Integer Remainder)

Multiply

MULT (Multiply)

* operator

Square Root

SQRT (Square Root)

%SQRT (Square Root of Expression)

Subtract

SUB (Subtract)

- operator

Zero and Add

Z-ADD (Zero and Add)

(not allowed)

Zero and Subtract

Z-SUB (Zero and Subtract)

(not allowed)

For examples of arithmetic operations, see Figure 1.

Remember the following when specifying arithmetic operations:

Arithmetic operations can be done only on numerics (including numeric
subfields, numeric arrays, numeric array elements, numeric table elements,
numeric named constants, numeric figurative constants, and numeric literals).

In general, arithmetic operations are performed using the packed-decimal
format. This means that the fields are first converted to packed-decimal format
prior to performing the arithmetic operation, and then converted back to their
specified format (if necessary) prior to placing the result in the result
field.
However, note the following exceptions:

If all operands are unsigned, the operation will use unsigned arithmetic.

If all are integer, or integer and unsigned, then the operation will use
integer arithmetic.

If any operands are float, then the remaining operands are converted to
float.

However, the DIV operation uses either the packed-decimal or
float format for its operations. For more information on integer and unsigned
arithmetic, see Integer and Unsigned Arithmetic.

Decimal alignment is done for all arithmetic operations. Even though truncation
can occur, the position of the decimal point in the result field is not affected.

The result of an arithmetic operation replaces the data that was in the
result field.

An arithmetic operation does not change factor 1 and factor 2 unless they
are the same as the result field.

If you use conditioning indicators with DIV and MVR, it is your responsibility
to ensure that the DIV operation occurs immediately before the MVR operation.
If conditioning indicators on DIV cause the MVR operation to be executed when
the immediately preceding DIV was not executed, then undesirable results may
occur.

For information on using arrays with arithmetic operations, see Specifying an Array in Calculations.

Ensuring Accuracy

Performance Considerations

Integer and Unsigned Arithmetic

Arithmetic Operations Examples

Parent topic: Operations