Display Breakpoints (DSPBKP)

Display Breakpoints (DSPBKP)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Display Breakpoints (DSPBKP) command shows the locations of all the breakpoints currently set in the specified programs in debug mode. The breakpoints and the names of the program variables associated with each breakpoint are shown.

Restrictions:

- You can use this command only in debug mode. To start debug mode, refer to the Start Debug (STRDBG) command.

- You cannot use this command to display breakpoints in a bound program.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
OUTPUT | Output | *, *PRINT | Optional, Positional 1
PGM | Program | Single values: *DFTPGM, *ALL
Other values (up to 20 repetitions): Name | Optional

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether the output from the command is displayed at the requesting work station or printed with the job's spooled output.

*
The output is displayed (if requested by an interactive job) or printed with the job's spooled output (if requested by a batch job).

*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output.

Top

Program (PGM)

Specifies which programs in debug mode have their breakpoint locations and associated program variables shown.

Single values

*DFTPGM
Only the default program has its breakpoint locations shown.

*ALL
All the programs currently in debug mode have their breakpoint locations shown.

Other values (up to 20 repetitions)

name
Specify the name of the program whose breakpoint locations are to be shown. The programs specified must already be in debug mode.

Top

Examples

DSPBKP

Assuming that program MYPROG is the default program in an interactive debug session, this command shows all of the breakpoint locations that are currently set in MYPROG. The names of the program variables associated with each breakpoint are also shown.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF1999
Errors occurred on command.

Top