Delete Distribution (DLTDST)

Delete Distribution (DLTDST)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Delete Distribution (DLTDST) command allows you to delete your own distributions or to delete distributions for another user. This command also allows system operators to delete damaged distribution objects and dangling distribution objects (distribution objects that are not controlled by a distribution tracking object).

Restrictions:

- If you are working on behalf of another user, you must have *ALLOBJ special authority or have been granted permission to work on behalf of the other user with the Grant User Permission (GRTUSRPMN) command.

- The requester of the command must be enrolled in the system distribution directory.

- Personal distribution cannot be requested if the requester is working on behalf of another user.

- Damaged and dangling distribution objects can be deleted only by the user who signs on and has *ALLOBJ authority.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
DSTID | Distribution identifier | Single values: *ERROBJ
Other values (up to 50 repetitions): Character value | Required, Positional 1
OPTION | Incoming or outgoing | *IN, *OUT, *ERR | Optional
USRID | User identifier | Single values: *CURRENT
Other values: Element list | Optional
Element 1: User ID | Character value
Element 2: Address | Character value
DSTIDEXN | Distribution ID extension | Values (up to 50 repetitions): 0-99, *NONE | Optional
OBJ | Object | Single values: *NONE, *ALL
Other values (up to 50 repetitions): Character value | Optional
CMDCHRID | Command character identifier | Single values: *SYSVAL, *DEVD
Other values: Element list | Optional
Element 1: Graphic character set | Integer
Element 2: Code page | Integer

Top

Distribution identifier (DSTID)

Specifies the unique identifier of the distribution. The identifier was assigned to the distribution by the system that originated it. Distribution identifiers can be found by using the Query Distribution (QRYDST) command. Identifiers are also returned from the Send Distribution (SNDDST) command.

You can enter multiple values for this parameter.

This is a required parameter.

*ERROBJ
The distributions to be deleted are damaged or dangling distribution objects.

Note: To delete a damaged or dangling distribution, a value must be specified also on the OBJ parameter.

distribution-ID
Specify the distribution identifiers. You can specify:

- up to a maximum of 50 identifiers

- sender's address (insert blanks on right to total 8 characters)

- sender's user ID (insert blanks on right to total 8 characters)

- zoned sequence number (4 digits with leading zeros)

Notes:

Apostrophes are needed if blanks or special characters are in the distribution identifier.

The distribution specified cannot be damaged or dangling.

Top

Incoming or outgoing (OPTION)

Specifies whether the distribution named on the Distribution identifier prompt (DSTID parameter) is an incoming distribution, an outgoing distribution, or an error distribution.

*IN
An incoming distribution sent to the user is deleted.

*OUT
An outgoing distribution from the user is deleted. An outgoing distribution is the status being saved by the system for a distribution sent to one or more users with confirmation of delivery requested.

*ERR
An error status distribution is deleted. This is the status returned because an error occurred during routing of the distribution.

Top

User identifier (USRID)

Specifies which user ID and user ID address should be associated with the request.

*CURRENT
You are performing the request for yourself.

user-ID
Specify another user's user ID or your user ID. You must have been given permission to work on behalf of another user.

user-ID-address
Specify another user's address or your address. You must have been given permission to work on behalf of another user.

Top

Distribution ID extension (DSTIDEXN)

Specifies the extension of the distribution identifier (if any) specified on the Distribution identifier prompt (DSTID parameter). This extension uniquely identifies duplicate distributions. This extension is a 2-digit extension that ranging from 00 through 99.

*NONE
There is no duplicate distribution. *NONE is equivalent to an extension of 01 for incoming distributions. For outgoing and undelivered status distributions, this is equivalent to 00.

distribution-id-extension
Specify the extension associated with the distribution. This is used to uniquely identify duplicate distributions.

Top

Object (OBJ)

Specifies the damaged or dangling distribution objects to be deleted.

*NONE
No damaged or dangling distribution objects are deleted.

*ALL
All damaged and dangling distribution objects are deleted.

object-name
Specify the name of the damaged or dangling distribution object to be deleted.
The object named can be a local or remote object.

- Local object names consist of the sender's address (padded on the right with blanks to a maximum of 8 characters), the sender's user ID (padded on the right with blanks to a maximum of 8 characters), and a 4-digit zoned sequence number with leading zeros. For example:

'NEWYORK SMITH 0204' or
UADDRESSUSERIDID0099

The apostrophes are needed if there are blanks or special characters in the distribution identifier. The distribution identifier is specified this way because blank characters are valid in a user ID or address.

- Remote object names consist of the remote system name and the system date and time. For example:

'QOSRDIST091112509152355'

where QOSRDIST is the remote system name, 0911125 is the system date (November 25, 1991), and 09152355 is the system time (9:15:23:55).

The distribution identifier for damaged or dangling distributions can be determined when the Save Document Library Object (SAVDLO) command is run and damaged or dangling distribution objects are identified.

A maximum of 50 objects can be named to be deleted.

Top

Command character identifier (CMDCHRID)

Specifies the character identifier (graphic character set and code page) for the data being entered as command parameter values. The character identifier is related to the display device used to enter the command.

If the values specified on the Distribution identifier prompt (DSTID parameter) and User identifier prompt (USRID parameter) are being read from an output file created by the Query Distribution (QRYDST) command, specify '930 500' on this parameter.

*SYSVAL
The system determines the graphic character set and code page values for the command parameters from the QCHRID system value.

*DEVD
The system determines the graphic character set and code page values from the display device description where this command was entered. This option is valid only when entered from an interactive job. If this option is specified in a batch job, an error occurs.

Element 1: Graphic character set

1-32767
Specify the graphic character set to use.

Element 2: Code page

1-32767
Specify the code page to use.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Deleting Incoming Distribution Sent to User

DLTDST DSTID(('RCH38P BAKER 0019')) USRID(*CURRENT)
DSTIDEXN(02)

This command deletes an incoming distribution sent to the user.

Example 2: Deleting Status of Outgoing Distribution

DLTDST DSTID(('SYSTEM20 BRUCE 1361'))
USRID(*CURRENT) DSTIDEXN(00)
OPTION(*OUT) CMDCHRID(101 37)

This command deletes the status associated with an outgoing distribution. The DSTID parameter value is encoded with a character identifier where the code page is 37 and the character set is 101. The system performs translation on the DSTID parameter value before trying to locate the distribution on the distribution recipient index.

Example 3: Deleting Incoming Distribution to Signed-On User

DLTDST DSTID(('CHICAGO JONES 0013'))

This command deletes an incoming distribution sent to a user who is signed on. The distribution extension defaults to '01' for incoming distributions. If duplicate distributions were sent, this command would only delete the first one.

Example 4: Deleting All Damaged Distributions

DLTDST DSTID(*ERROBJ) OBJ(*ALL)

This command deletes all damaged and dangling distributions on the system.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF89BD
The object must be specified with DSTID(*ERROBJ).

CPF900A
&2 distribution deleted, could not delete &1 distribution.

CPF900B
User ID and address &1 &2 not in System Distribution Directory.

CPF900C
Sign on and verify of user failed.

CPF9016
Request to cancel distribution &2-&3-&4 unsuccessful for &1.

CPF905C
Error occurred trying to find a translation table.

CPF906C
Distribution not deleted.

CPF9096
Cannot use CMDCHRID(*DEVD), DOCCHRID(*DEVD) in batch job.

Top