Remove Distribution Queue (RMVDSTQ)

Remove Distribution Queue (RMVDSTQ)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Remove Distribution Queue (RMVDSTQ) command allows you to remove a distribution queue entry from the distribution services queue table. Distribution queues are used to store distributions before they are sent or forwarded to other systems.

The RMVDSTQ command does not provide interactive display support. This is provided by the Configure Distribution Services (CFGDSTSRV) command. More information about configuring a distribution network is in the SNA Distribution Services book, SC41-5410.

Distribution queue names are translated to the graphic character set and code page 930 500, using the job's coded character set identifier (CCSID).

Restrictions:

- This command is shipped with public *EXCLUDE authority, and the QPGMR and QSYSOPR user profiles have private authorities to use the command.

- The following distribution queues cannot be removed:

Queues referred to in the routing table

Queues that contain distributions waiting to be sent

DLS (document library services) queues that have remote libraries configured to use them

SVDS (IBM System Manager for i distribution services) queues when a receiver is active or when distributions have been received and the sender has not acknowledged receiving confirmation.

- Messages that report errors about distribution queues may display or print different characters than you entered for the distribution queue name because of internal system transformations. Similarly (depending on the language used for the work station), the internal value for a distribution queue name may differ from the characters shown for the Work with Distribution Queue (WRKDSTQ) command. An error may be reported if the character-string value specified for the Distribution queue prompt (DSTQ parameter) does not match the rules for an internal distribution queue value or if it does not match the internal value for any defined distribution queue (ignoring case differences).

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
DSTQ | Distribution queue | Character value | Required, Positional 1

Top

Distribution queue (DSTQ)

Specifies the name of the distribution queue entry to be removed.

This is a required parameter.

Top

Examples

RMVDSTQ DSTQ(CHICAGO)

This command removes the distribution queue entry named CHICAGO.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF8802
Distribution queue &1 was not found.

CPF8807
Error occurred while using QSNADS journal.

CPF8809
Errors detected on SNADS internal queues.

CPF881B
Distributions are being received for distribution queue &1

CPF8826
Distribution queue entries exist for distribution queue &1.

CPF8827
Routing table entries exist for distribution queue &1.

CPF8828
Remote document library entries exist for *DLS distribution queue &1.

CPF8833
Distribution queue &1 already exists.

CPF8849
Queue &1 in use by another distribution services function.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

CPF9846
Error while processing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9847
Error occurred while closing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9899
Error occurred during processing of command.

Top