Add RIP Accepted Route (ADDRIPACP)

Add RIP Accepted Route (ADDRIPACP)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Add RIP Accepted Route (ADDRIPACP) command defines a RIP Accepted Route that the OMPROUTED server will add into the RIP (Routing Information Protocol) implementation. Allows a network, subnet (IPv4), prefix (IPv6) or host route (both IPs) to be accepted independent of whether the interface it was received on has the corresponding reception parameter enabled (network, subnet, prefix or host). Routes added in this manner can be thought of as a list of exception conditions.

With this command IPv4 (RIPv2) and IPv6 (RIPng) unconditionally accepted routes can be configured.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority to run this command.

- Setting an accepted route does not enable updates for this destination to be received with Receive RIP (RCVRIP) parameter set to *NO. Also, this does not override RIP filters set using the RCVRIP parameter on a RIP Interface. For example, on a RIP Interface with the Receive RIP (RCVRIP) parameter set to *RIP2, a RIPv1 route that would otherwise be allowed by this interface is not received.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
ADDR | Internet address | Character value | Required, Positional 1

Top

Internet address (ADDR)

Destination route to be unconditionally accepted. The address can be an IPv4 or IPv6 address.

This is a required parameter.

character-value
Specify the internet address of the destination route to be accepted. An IPv4 internet address is specified in the form nnn.nnn.nnn.nnn where nnn is a decimal number between 0 and 255. An IPv6 internet address is specified in the form n:n:n:n:n:n:n:n where n is a hexadecimal number in the range from 0 through X'ffff'. The value "::" indicates that one or more groups of 16 bits are zero.

Top

Examples

Example 1:Adding a RIP Accepted Route

ADDRIPACP ADDR('9.67.107.7')

This command adds an unconditionally accepted IPv4 route defined with IP address 9.67.107.7.

Example 2:Adding a RIPng (IPv6) Accepted Route

ADDRIPACP ADDR('1000::5678:9abc:def')

This command adds an unconditionally accepted IPv6 (RIPng) route.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

TCP8050
*IOSYSCFG authority required to use &1.

TCP6584
Internet address &1 not valid for parameter &2.

TCP6589
Internet address version 6 &1 not valid for parameter &2.

TCP659B
The unconditionally accepted route with address &1 already exists in the RIP configuration file.

TCP9999
Internal system error in program &1.

Top