Open Access Handlers

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > General File Considerations > Open Access Files > Open Access Files

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > General File Considerations > Open Access Files

Open Access Handlers

An Open Access handler is responsible for handling all the
operations for an Open Access file.

The handler is called when the file is opened, when it is closed,
and for any input or output operation for the file.

The parameter passed to the handler

The handler is passed a single parameter.
Copy member QRNOPENACC in file
QOAR/QRPGLESRC contains the data-structure
template QrnOpenAccess_T which can be used
with the LIKEDS keyword to define the parameter in the handler.

The handler parameter contains many pointer subfields that
point to other structures.
The copy file contains additional data-structure templates
that can be used to define these other structures.
For example, the prtctl subfield can be
used as the basing pointer for a structure defined
with keyword LIKEDS(QrnPrtctl_T).

The copy file also contains several named constants that
can be used within the handler.
For example, there are several named constants whose names begin
with QrnOperation_, such as
QrnOperation_OPEN, that can be used with
subfield rpgOperation of the handler parameter.

The subfields provide the handler with all the information it needs to perform
the required operation.
For example, for an output operation, it
receives the data to be written to the file.

The subfields also allow the handler to pass back all the information
needed by RPG following the operation.
For example, for an input operation, the handler can pass back
the input data, and it can pass back information about whether
the file reached end-of-file.

If the handler needs to communicate directly with
the RPG programmer, the handler provider can ask the RPG programmer
to specify the communication-area parameter of the
HANDLER keyword.
The RPG program and the handler provider must ensure
that the communication-area parameter is defined the
same in the handler and the RPG program.
Normally, the handler provider would provide a template
data structure in a copy file that the RPG programmer can use
to define the communication-area parameter.
Note: The communication area is also referred to as the user area.
The userArea subfield in the handler parameter
is a pointer to the communication-area parameter specified
on the HANDLER keyword in the RPG program.

If the handler needs to maintain state information that is
available across calls to the handler, it can use the
stateInfo pointer subfield in the handler parameter.
If the handler places a pointer value in this subfield during
one call to the handler, the same pointer value will be avaiable
for all subsequent calls to the handler for that particular file.
Normally, a handler will allocate storage for the state information
while it is handling the OPEN operation, and it will deallocate
the storage when it is handling the CLOSE operation.

Errors in the handler

If the handler fails with an unhandled exception, the
RPG operation will fail with a status code relevant to the
operation. For example, if the operation is an OPEN or a CLOSE
operation, the error status will be either 1216 or 1217.
For other operations, the status will be 1299.

If the handler detects an error, there are two mechanisms to
communicate the failure to the RPG program:

Send an exception message that will cause the handler
to end with an unhandled exception.
This message will appear in the joblog, and the subsequent RPG
error message will refer to this error message.
The advantage of this mechanism is that the handler
ends as soon as the exception message is sent,
so the handler does not have to keep track of whether the operation
has failed.

Set the rpgStatus subfield of
the handler parameter to the desired RPG status code.
It may also be helpful to send a diagnostic message to
the joblog.
The advantage of this mechanism is that the handler can
choose the exact status code. For example, there are several
status codes associated with WORKSTN
operations.

See the Rational® Open Access: RPG Edition
topic for information on writing an Open Access handler.

Example of an Open Access Handler

Parent topic: Open Access Files