RETURN statement

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > SQL control statements > SQL control statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > SQL control statements

RETURN statement
The RETURN statement returns from a routine. For SQL scalar
functions, it returns the result of the function. For
SQL non-pipelined table functions, it returns a table as the result
of the function. For SQL pipelined table functions, it indicates the
end of the result table has been reached. For an SQL procedure,
it optionally returns an integer status value.
Syntaxlabel:RETURNexpressionNULLWITHRECURSIVE,common-table-expressionfullselect
Descriptionlabel
Specifies the label for the RETURN statement. The label name cannot
be the same as the routine name or another label within the same scope.
For more information, see References to SQL labels.
expression
Specifies a value that is returned from the routine: If the routine is a scalar function, the data type of the result
must be assignable to the data type defined for the function result,
using the storage assignment rules as described in Assignments and comparisons. An aggregate function, or user-defined
function that is sourced on an aggregate function must not be specified
for a RETURN statement in an SQL scalar function.
If the routine is a table function, a scalar expression (other
than a scalar fullselect) cannot be specified.
If the routine is a procedure, the data type of expression must
be INTEGER. If the expression evaluates to the null value,
a value of zero is returned.

NULL
Specifies that the null value is returned from the routine.If the routine is a scalar function, the null value is returned.
If the routine is a table function, NULL must not be specified.
If the routine is a procedure, NULL must not be specified.

WITH common-table-expression
Specifies one or more common table expressions to be used
in the fullselect.
fullselect
Specifies the row or rows to be returned for the routine.If the routine is a scalar function, the fullselect must return
one column and, at most, one row. The data type of the result column
must be assignable to the data type defined for the function result,
using the storage assignment rules as described in Assignments and comparisons.
If the routine is a table function, the fullselect can return
zero or more rows with one or more columns. The number of columns
in the fullselect must match the number of columns in the function
result. In addition, the data types of the result table columns of
the fullselect must be assignable to the data types of the columns
defined for the function result, using the storage assignment rules
as described in Assignments and comparisons.
If the routine is a procedure, fullselect must not be specified.

NotesReturning from a table function:
The last statement executed in the SQL-routine-body must
be a RETURN statement.
For a non-pipelined table function, the RETURN statement indicates
the rows to be returned. Exactly one RETURN statement must be specified
and it must contain a fullselect.
For a pipelined table function, one or more RETURN statements
must be specified and they must contain no return values.

Returning from a procedure:
If a RETURN statement with a specified return value is used to
return from a procedure then the SQLCODE, SQLSTATE, and message length
in the SQLCA or diagnostics area are initialized to zeros, and message
text is set to blanks. An error is not returned to the caller.
If a RETURN statement is not used to return from a procedure or
if a value is not specified on the RETURN statement, if the procedure returns with an SQLCODE that is greater than
or equal to zero, the specified target for DB2_RETURN_STATUS in a
GET DIAGNOSTICS statement will be set to a value of 0
if the procedure returns with an SQLCODE that is less than zero,
the specified target for DB2_RETURN_STATUS in a GET DIAGNOSTICS statement
will be set to a value of -1.

When a value is returned from a procedure, the caller may access
the value using: the GET DIAGNOSTICS statement to retrieve the DB2_RETURN_STATUS
when the SQL procedure was called from another SQL procedure
the parameter bound for the return value parameter marker in the
escape clause CALL syntax (?=CALL...) in a ODBC or JDBC application
directly from the SQLCA returned from processing the CALL of an
SQL procedure by retrieving the value of sqlerrd[0] when the SQLCODE
is not less than zero. When the SQLCODE is less than zero, the sqlerrd[0]
value is not set and the application should assume a return status
value of -1.

RETURN restrictions:
RETURN is not allowed in SQL triggers.
In a compound(dynamic) statement, RETURN cannot specify
a return value.

ExampleExample 1: Use a RETURN statement
to return from an SQL procedure with a status value of zero if successful,
and –200 if not.
BEGIN
...
GOTO fail;
...
success: RETURN 0
failure: RETURN -200
...
END

Example 2: Define a scalar function that returns
the tangent of a value using the existing sine and cosine functions.
CREATE FUNCTION mytan (x DOUBLE)
RETURNS DOUBLE
LANGUAGE SQL
CONTAINS SQL
NO EXTERNAL ACTION
DETERMINISTIC
RETURN SIN(x)/COS(x)

Parent topic: SQL control statements