Change Distribution List (CHGDSTL)

Change Distribution List (CHGDSTL)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Change Distribution List (CHGDSTL) command is used to change information about an existing distribution list.

A distribution list is a list of entries from the distribution directory. The distribution list can include entries for users of work stations that are local, remote, indirect, and independent. It also can include remote distribution lists, but it cannot include local distribution lists. More information about distribution lists is in the SNA Distribution Services book, SC41-5410.

Restrictions:

- You must have security administrator (*SECADM) authority to change a distribution list that you do not own.

- No special authority is needed for you to change a distribution list that you own. However, to change the ownership of a distribution list that you own, you must have at least change (*CHANGE) authority to the user profile of the user to be named as the new owner.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
LSTID | List identifier | Element list | Required, Key, Positional 1
Element 1: List ID | Character value
Element 2: List ID qualifier | Character value
LSTD | List description | Character value, *SAME | Optional
OWNER | Owner | Name, *SAME | Optional, Positional 2

Top

List identifier (LSTID)

Specifies the two-part list identifier of the distribution list to be changed.

The possible list identifier value is:

list-ID
Specify the list identifier (ID) of the distribution list.

The possible list qualifier value is:

list-ID-qualifier
Specify the list ID qualifier of the distribution list.

Note: The distribution list identifier has two parts, the ID and the qualifier, separated by at least one space. If lowercase characters are specified, the system changes them to uppercase.

The naming rules for the two-part list ID are identical to the rules for the user ID and address. A complete description of these rules is in the SNA Distribution Services book, SC41-5410.

This is a required parameter.

Top

List description (LSTD)

Specifies the description of the distribution list. The description further identifies the distribution list.

*SAME
The value does not change.

'list-description'
Specify the changed description of the distribution list. A maximum of 50 characters can be specified and must be enclosed in apostrophes.

Top

Owner (OWNER)

Specifies the user profile name of the user who is to own the distribution list. The user profile named must exist on the system.

*SAME
The value does not change.

user-profile-name
Specify the name of the user profile for the user to whom the distribution list is being assigned.

Top

Examples

CHGDSTL LSTID(DEPTABC DLIST)
LSTD('Department ABC Distribution List')
OWNER(SECABC)

This command changes a distribution list that contains the members of Department&rbl.ABC. The description and owner of the distribution list are both changed.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF9A8A
Distribution list &1 &2 not changed.

CPF9024
System cannot get correct record to finish operation.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

CPF9846
Error while processing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9847
Error occurred while closing file &1 in library &2.

Top