SET ENCRYPTION PASSWORD

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

SET ENCRYPTION PASSWORD
The SET ENCRYPTION PASSWORD statement sets the default
password and hint that will be used by the encryption and decryption
functions. The password is not associated with authentication and
is only used for data encryption and decryption.
For information about using this statement, see ENCRYPT_AES, ENCRYPT_RC2, ENCRYPT_TDES, and DECRYPT_BIT, DECRYPT_BINARY, DECRYPT_CHAR and DECRYPT_DB.
InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared.
Authorization If a global variable
is referenced in the statement, the privileges held by the authorization
ID of the statement must include at least one of the following:
For each global variable identified in the statement, The READ privilege on the global variable, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the global
variable

Database administrator authority

SyntaxSETENCRYPTION PASSWORD␠=␠password-variablepassword-string-constantWITH HINT=hint-variablehint-string-constant
Descriptionpassword-variable
Specifies a variable that contains an encryption password. The
variable:
Must be a CHAR, VARCHAR, Unicode GRAPHIC, or Unicode VARGRAPHIC
variable. The actual length of the contents of the variable must be
between 6 and 127 inclusive or must be an empty string. If an empty
string is specified, the default encryption password is set to no
value.
Must not be the null value.
All characters are case-sensitive and are not converted to uppercase
characters.

password-string-constant
A character constant. The length of the constant must be between
6 and 127 inclusive or must be an empty string. If an empty string
is specified, the default encryption password is set to no value.
The literal form of the password is not allowed in static SQL or REXX.
WITH HINT
Indicates that a value is specified that will help data owners
remember passwords (for example, 'Ocean' as a hint to remember 'Pacific').
If a hint value is specified, the hint is used as the default for
encryption functions. The hint can subsequently be retrieved for an
encrypted value using the GETHINT function. If this clause is not
specified and a hint is not explicitly specified on the encryption
function, no hint will be embedded in encrypted data result. hint-variable
Specifies a variable that contains an encryption password hint.
The variable:
Must be a CHAR, VARCHAR, Unicode GRAPHIC, or Unicode VARGRAPHIC
variable. The actual length of the contents of the variable must not
be greater than 32. If an empty string is specified, the default encryption
password hint is set to no value.
Must not be the null value.
All characters are case-sensitive and are not converted to uppercase
characters.

hint-string-constant
A character constant. The length of the constant must not be greater
than 32. If an empty string is specified, the default encryption password
hint is set to no value.

NotesPassword
protection: To prevent inadvertent access to the encryption password,
do not specify password-string-constant in
the source for a program, procedure, or function. Instead, use a variable.
When connected to a remote relational database, the specified
password itself is sent "in the clear". That is, the password itself
is not encrypted. To protect the password in these cases, consider
using a communications encryption mechanism such as IPSEC (or SSL
if connecting between IBM® i products).
Transaction considerations: The SET ENCRYPTION
PASSWORD statement is not a committable operation. ROLLBACK has no
effect on the default encryption password or default encryption password
hint.
Initial encryption password value: The initial
value of both the default encryption password and the default encryption
password hint is the empty string ('').
Encryption password scope: The scope of the default
encryption password and default encryption password hint is the activation
group and connection.
ExampleSet the ENCRYPTION PASSWORD to the
value in :hv1.
SET ENCRYPTION PASSWORD :hv1

Parent topic: Statements