Create Device Desc (NWSH) (CRTDEVNWSH)

Create Device Desc (NWSH) (CRTDEVNWSH)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Create Device Description (NWSH) (CRTDEVNWSH) command creates a device description for a network server host adapter (NWSH) device.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority to use this command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
DEVD | Device description | Name | Required, Key, Positional 1
RSRCNAME | Resource name | Name, *VRT | Required, Key, Positional 2
LCLIFC | Local (target) interface | Element list | Required, Positional 3
Element 1: Subnet mask | Character value, *NONE
Element 2: Port speed | *AUTO
Element 3: Duplex | *AUTO
Element 4: Local SCSI interface | Element list
Element 1: Internet address | Character value
Element 2: Gateway address | Character value, *NONE
Element 3: SCSI TCP port | 1024-65535, 3260, 860
Element 5: Local LAN interface | Element list
Element 1: Internet address | Character value, *IPSCSI
Element 2: Gateway address | Character value, *NONE
Element 3: Virtual Ethernet base UDP port | 1024-65471, 8801
Element 6: Cable connection | *NETWORK, *DIRECT
ONLINE | Online at IPL | *NO, *YES | Optional
MSGQ | Message queue | Single values: *SYSOPR
Other values: Qualified object name | Optional
Qualifier 1: Message queue | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
CMNRCYLMT | Recovery limits | Single values: *SYSVAL
Other values: Element list | Optional
Element 1: Count limit | 0-99, 2
Element 2: Time interval | 0-120, 5
TEXT | Text 'description' | Character value, *BLANK | Optional
AUT | Authority | Name, *CHANGE, *ALL, *USE, *EXCLUDE, *LIBCRTAUT | Optional

Top

Device description (DEVD)

Specifies the name of the device description.

This is a required parameter.

Top

Resource name (RSRCNAME)

Specifies the resource name that identifies the hardware that the description represents.

Use the Work with Hardware Resources (WRKHDWRSC) command with TYPE(*CMN) specified to determine the resource name.

This is a required parameter.

*VRT

The resource name will represent virtual (not physical) hardware.

name

Specify the Network Server Host Port resource name.

Top

Local (target) interface (LCLIFC)

Specifies the local (target) interface configuration for a network server host adapter.

This is a required parameter.

Element 1: Subnet mask

Specifies the subnet mask associated with the local interface. Subnetting provides the capability to partition an internet domain.

Note: If *VRT is specified for the Resource name (RSRCNAME) parameter, then *NONE must be specified.

*NONE

There is no subnet mask.

Note: *NONE is valid only when RSRCNAME(*VRT) is specified.

character-value

Specify the mask for the network subnet and host address fields of the internet address that defines a subnet. The subnet mask is in the form, nnn.nnn.nnn.nnn, where nnn is a decimal number ranging from 0 through 255. The subnet mask must mask off all bits of the network class's network ID portion of the internet address. For example, a subnet mask of 255.255.255.0 defines a Class B subnet consisting of all bits in the network portion of the internet address (this is a given) and consisting of all bits in the third byte of an internet address. If the subnet mask is entered from a command line, it must be enclosed in apostrophes.

Element 2: Port speed

Specifies the speed of the port described by this local interface.

Note: If *VRT is specified for the Resource name (RSRCNAME) parameter, this element is not used.

*AUTO

The hardware automatically determines the port speed.

Element 3: Duplex

Specifies the duplex mode used by the port described by this local interface.

Note: If *VRT is specified for the Resource name (RSRCNAME) parameter, this element is not used.

*AUTO

The hardware automatically determines the duplex.

Element 4: Local SCSI interface

Specifies the local Small Computer System Interface (SCSI) configuration.

Element 1: Internet address

Specifies the local internet address which the SCSI interface on the network server host adapter responds to.

character-value

The internet address is specified in the form, nnn.nnn.nnn.nnn, where nnn is a decimal number ranging from 0 through 255. An internet address that has a binary value of all ones or all binary zeros for the network identifier (ID) portion or the host ID portion of the internet address is not valid. The internet address selected must be unique across the network. If the local internet address is entered from a command line, the address must be enclosed in apostrophes.

Element 2: Gateway address

Specifies the gateway address for the internet address associated with the SCSI interface.

Note: If *VRT is specified for the Resource name (RSRCNAME) parameter, then *NONE must be specified.

*NONE

There is no gateway address.

character-value

The gateway address is in the form ddd.ddd.ddd.ddd where ddd is a decimal number ranging from 0 to 255. If the gateway address is entered from a command line, the address must be enclosed in apostrophes.

Element 3: SCSI TCP port

Specifies the local SCSI TCP port that the local SCSI interface will listen on for iSCSI traffic. The local SCSI interface internet address and TCP port together define an iSCSI target portal.

3260

Port 3260 will be used as the local SCSI TCP port.

port-number

The well-known TCP port number for iSCSI connections assigned by Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) is 3260 and this is the default iSCSI port number. The TCP port assigned by IANA as the iSCSI system port is 860. Valid values are 860 and the range 1024 through 65535.

Element 5: Local LAN interface

Specifies a local Local Area Network (LAN) interface configuration.

Element 1: Internet address

Specifies the local internet address which the LAN interface on the network server host adapter responds to.

Note: If *VRT is specified for the Resource name (RSRCNAME) parameter, then *IPSCSI must be specified.

*IPSCSI

The local LAN internet address is the same as the the local SCSI internet address.

Note: *IPSCSI is valid only when RSRCNAME(*VRT) is specified.

character-value

The internet address is specified in the form, nnn.nnn.nnn.nnn, where nnn is a decimal number ranging from 0 through 255. An internet address that has a binary value of all ones or all binary zeros for the network identifier (ID) portion or the host ID portion of the internet address is not valid. The internet address selected must be unique across the network. If the local internet address is entered from a command line, the address must be enclosed in apostrophes.

Element 2: Gateway address

Specifies the gateway address for the internet address associated with the LAN interface.

Note: If *VRT is specified for the Resource name (RSRCNAME) parameter, then *NONE must be specified.

*NONE

There is no gateway address.

character-value

The gateway address is in the form ddd.ddd.ddd.ddd where ddd is a decimal number ranging from 0 to 255. If the gateway address is entered from a command line, the address must be enclosed in apostrophes.

Element 3: Virtual Ethernet base UDP port

Specifies the lowest numbered User Datagram Protocol (UDP) port that the local LAN interface will use for virtual Ethernet communication with the remote server.

8801

Port 8801 will be used as the Virtual Ethernet base UDP port.

1024-65471

Virtual Ethernet communication is encapsulated in UDP packets. Each virtual Ethernet adapter is automatically assigned a UDP port from a range that begins at the specified base port number and ends at the base port number plus the number of configured virtual Ethernet adapters. Valid values are the range 1024 through 65471.

Element 6: Cable connection

Specifies the type of cable connection used by this local interface.

*NETWORK
The cable for this local interface is connected to a network.

*DIRECT
The cable for this local interface is connected directly to an interface on the remote system.

Top

Online at IPL (ONLINE)

Specifies whether this object is automatically varied on at initial program load (IPL).

Notes:

- If *VRT is specified for the Resource name (RSRCNAME) parameter, then the value *NO is used.

- A network server host adapter (NWSH) device with RSRCNAME(*VRT) cannot be varied on until the TCP/IP interfaces are started.

*NO

This device is not varied on automatically at IPL.

*YES

This device is varied on automatically at IPL.

Top

Message queue (MSGQ)

Specifies the message queue to which operational messages for this device are sent.

Single values

*SYSOPR

Messages are sent to the system operator message queue (QSYS/QSYSOPR).

Qualifier 1: Message queue

name

Specify the name of the message queue to which operational messages are sent.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL

All libraries in the job's library list are searched until the first match is found.

*CURLIB

The current library for the job is searched. If no library is specified as the current library for the job, the QGPL library is used.

name

Specify the name of the library to be searched.

Top

Recovery limits (CMNRCYLMT)

Specifies the communications recovery limits to be used for this device description.

Note: If *VRT is specified for the Resource name (RSRCNAME) parameter, this parameter is ignored.

Single values

*SYSVAL

The recovery limits specified in the system value QCMNRCYLMT are used.

Element 1: Count limit

2

Two recovery attempts are made within the specified time interval.

0-99

Specify the number of recovery attempts to be performed by the system.

Element 2: Time interval

5

The specified number of recovery attempts are made within a 5-minute interval.

0-120

Specify the number of minutes within which recovery attempts are made.

Top

Text 'description' (TEXT)

Specifies the text that briefly describes the object.

*BLANK
No text is specified.

character-value
Specify no more than 50 characters of text, enclosed in apostrophes.

Top

Authority (AUT)

Specifies the authority you are giving to users who do not have specific authority for the object, who are not on an authorization list, and whose group profile or supplemental group profiles do not have specific authority for the object.

*CHANGE
The user can perform all operations on the object except those limited to the owner or controlled by object existence (*OBJEXIST) and object management (*OBJMGT) authorities. The user can change and perform basic functions on the object. *CHANGE authority provides object operational (*OBJOPR) authority and all data authority. If the object is an authorization list, the user cannot add, change, or remove users.

*ALL
The user can perform all operations except those limited to the owner or controlled by authorization list management (*AUTLMGT) authority. The user can control the object's existence, specify the security for the object, change the object, and perform basic functions on the object. The user also can change ownership of the object.

*USE
The user can perform basic operations on the object, such as running a program or reading a file. The user cannot change the object. Use (*USE) authority provides object operational (*OBJOPR), read (*READ), and execute (*EXECUTE) authorities.

*EXCLUDE
The user cannot access the object.

*LIBCRTAUT
The system determines the authority for the object by using the value specified for the Create authority (CRTAUT) parameter on the Create Library (CRTLIB) command for the library containing the object to be created. If the value specified for the CRTAUT parameter is changed, the new value will not affect any existing objects.

name
Specify the name of an authorization list to be used for authority to the object. Users included in the authorization list are granted authority to the object as specified in the list. The authorization list must exist when the object is created.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Create a network server host adapter description

CRTDEVNWSH DEVD(DEVNWSH) RSRCNAME(CMN03)
LCLIFC('255.255.255.128' *AUTO *AUTO
('9.5.149.241' '9.5.149.129' 3260)
('9.5.149.245' '9.5.149.122' 8801)
*DIRECT)

This command creates a network server host adapter description named DEVNWSH. DEVNWSH has an associated resource named CMN03. The local SCSI and the local LAN interfaces will have the specified TCP/IP internet addresses assigned. The local SCSI interface will use the default TCP port value, which is the well-known user TCP port number for iSCSI connections assigned by IANA. The local LAN interface will use the default virtual Ethernet base UDP port value. The hardware will determine the port speed and duplex. The cable for this local SCSI interface is connected directly to an interface on the remote system.

Example 2: Create a virtual network server host adapter description

CRTDEVNWSH DEVD(VRTNWSH) RSRCNAME(*VRT)
LCLIFC(*NONE *AUTO *AUTO
('9.5.149.241' *NONE 3260)
(*IPSCSI *NONE 8801)
*NETWORK)

This command creates a virtual network server host adapter description named VRTNWSH. The resource represents virtual (not physical hardware). The local SCSI interface will have the specified TCP/IP internet address assigned. The local LAN internet address will be the same as the local SCSI address. The local SCSI interface will use the default TCP port value, which is the well-known user TCP port number for iSCSI connections assigned by IANA. The local LAN interface will use the default virtual Ethernet base UDP port value.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF261A
Device description &1 not created due to errors.

Top