HOME (Home) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

HOME (Home) keyword for display files

You use this file-level or record-level keyword to
specify that you want to recognize and handle the Home key through your program.

See System/36 environment considerations for display files for special
considerations when you specify the HOME keyword in files that
are used in the System/36 environment.
The
format of the keyword is: HOME[(response-indicator ['text'])]
If you press the Home key and the cursor is not already at
the home position, the cursor returns to the home position, even if you do
not specify the HOME keyword.
If the cursor is already at the home position
when the Home key is pressed, the IBM® i operating
system returns control to your program as it does when a command attention
key is pressed (no data is received from the device). In this situation, if
you have not specified the HOME keyword, the IBM i operating
system sends a message indicating that the key is not valid at that time.
The home position is one of the following positions (in order
of priority):
The cursor position specified by the last output operation

The first unprotected input field

Position 1, line 1

The optional text is included on the computer printout created
at program compilation time to explain the intended use of the indicator.
This text's only function in the file or the program is as a comment. The
single quotation marks are required. If you specify more than 50 characters
between the single quotation marks, the text is truncated to 50 characters
on the program computer printout.
Option indicators are valid for this
keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the HOME keyword so that if the cursor is in the home position when the Home
key is pressed, control returns to the program with response indicator 95
set on.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00030A HOME(95 'Home key')
A