EXTFLD{(field_name)}

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Definition Specifications > Definition-Specification Keywords > Definition-Specification Keywords

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Definition Specifications > Definition-Specification Keywords

EXTFLD{(field_name)}

The EXTFLD keyword is used to rename a subfield in an externally described
data structure.
In a free-form definition, it is also used to
indicate that the subfield is an external subfield.

Enter the external name of the subfield as the parameter to
the EXTFLD keyword.

In a free-form definition, the EXTFLD keyword must be the first keyword.
If the name of the subfield is the same as the external name of the
field, the parameter is optional.
If specified, the external name must be specified as a character literal
or a named constant.
If it is a
named constant, the constant must be defined prior to the definition
statement.

In a fixed-form definition, enter the external name of the subfield as the parameter to
the EXTFLD keyword, and specify the name to be used in the program in the
Name field (positions 7-21).
The external name can be either a simple name
or a character literal.

If a character literal is specified, the external name
must be specified in the correct case.
For example, if the external
name is MYFIELD, the field-name parameter could be
specified in a fixed-form definition as a name in mixed
case such as myField or myfield,
but if specified as a literal it must be 'MYFIELD'.

In the following example, three of the external field names in the file
are NAME, ADR,
and ID.

Subfield name is initialized to 'UNKNOWN'.

In the free-form version of the code,
the parameter for EXTFLD is not needed because the subfield name
is the same as the external name.

In the fixed-form version of the code, the EXTFLD keyword
is not specified, because the subfield is not
being renamed.

Subfield address is renamed from external
field ADR.

In the free-form version of the code, the
external name is specified as a literal.

In the fixed-form version of the code, the
external name is specified as a simple name.

Subfield id_number is renamed from external
field ID and initialized to -1.

In the free-form version of the code, the
external name is specified as a named constant,
ID_EXT_NAME whose value is 'ID'.

In the fixed-form version of the code, the
external name is specified as a literal.

DCL-C ID_EXT_NAME 'ID'; 3a
DCL-DS custInfo EXTNAME('CUSTMAST');
name EXTFLD INZ('UNKNOWN'); 1a
address EXTFLD('ADR'); 2a
id_number EXTFLD(ID_EXT_NAME) INZ(-1); 3a
END-DS;

D custInfo E DS EXTNAME(custMast)
D name E INZ('UNKNOWN') 1b
D address E EXTFLD(adr) 2b
D id_number E EXTFLD('ID') INZ(-1) 3b

If the name is not a valid simple RPG name, it must be specified
as a literal.
For example, to rename external field A.B, specify EXTFLD('A.B').

The keyword is optional. If not specified, the name extracted from the
external definition is used as the data-structure subfield name.

If the PREFIX keyword is specified for the data structure, the prefix will
not be applied to fields renamed with EXTFLD.
Figure 1 shows an example of the EXTFLD keyword with the ALIAS keyword.

Parent topic: Definition-Specification Keywords