Static prompt message for control language

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Changing national language versions > Changing national language versions

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Changing national language versions

Static prompt message for control language
The static prompt message is stored in the command
definition object. Different national language versions of information are
displayed when you add a national language library to the library list.
When you use the static prompt message, the language used
for user-readable information (displays, messages, printed output, and online
help information) is controlled by the library list for the job. By adding
a national language library to the system portion of the library list, different
national language versions of information can be presented. For the primary
language, a national language version is the running code and textual data
for each licensed program entered. For the secondary language, it is the textual
data for all licensed programs.
The language information for the primary language of the system is stored
in the same libraries as the programs for IBM® licensed programs. For example, if the
primary national language of the system is English, then libraries such as
QSYS, QHLPSYS, and QSSP contain information in English. Libraries QSYS and
QHLPSYS are on the system portion of the library list. Libraries for other
licensed programs (such as QRPGLE for ILE RPG for i5/OS®)
are added to the library list by the system when they are needed.
National language versions other than the system primary language are installed
in secondary national language libraries. Each secondary language library
contains a single national language version of the displays, messages, commands
prompts, and help for all IBM licensed programs. The name of a secondary
language library is in the form QSYSnnnn, where nnnn is
a language feature code. For example, the feature code for French is 2928,
so the secondary national language library name for French is QSYS2928.
If a user wants information presented in the primary national language
of the system, no special action is required. To present information in a
national language different from the primary national language of the system,
the user must change the library list so that the required national language
library is positioned before all other libraries in the library list that
contains national language information. You can use any of the following options
to position the required national language library first: You can use the SYSLIBLE parameter on the CRTSBSD or CHGSBSD to present
displays, messages, and so on for a specific language. For example: CRTSBSD SBSD(QSBSD 2928) POOLS((1 *NOTSG)) SYSLIBLE(QSYS2928)

You can use the LIB parameter on the CHGSYSLIBL command to specify the
required national language library at the top of the library list. For example:
CHGSYSLIBL LIB(QSYS2928)

You can set up an initial program in the user profile to specify the required
national library at the top of the library list for an interactive job. This
is a good option if the user does not want to run the CHGSYSLIBL command at
every sign-on. The initial program uses the Change System Library List (CHGSYSLIBL)
command to add the required national language library to the top of the library
list. Note: The authority shipped with the CHGSYSLIBL command does not allow
all users to run the command.

To enable a user to run the CHGSYSLIBL command without granting the user
rights to the command, you can write a CL program containing the CHGSYSLIBL
command. The program is owned by the security officer, and adopts the security
officer's authority when created. Any user with authority to run the program
can use it to change the system part of the library list in the user's job.
The following is an example of a program to set the library list for a French
user. Note: By using the code example, you agree to the terms of the Code license and disclaimer information.
PGM
CHGSYSLIBL LIB(QSYS2928) /* Use French information */
ENDPGM

Parent topic: Changing national language versions