Messages

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Control language

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language

Messages
Messages are used to communicate between users and programs.
On the i5/OS® operating
system, communication between procedures or programs, between jobs, between
users, and between users and procedures or programs occurs through messages.
Messages can be sent:
From one system user to another system user, even if the receiver of the
messages is not currently using the system
From one original program model (OPM) program or Integrated Language Environment® (ILE) procedure to another OPM program or ILE procedure
From a program or procedure to a system user, even if the receiver of
the messages is not currently using the system

A message can be predefined or immediate:
A predefined message is created and exists outside the program that uses
it. Predefined messages are stored in message files and have a message number.
An example of a system predefined message is: CPF0006 Errors occurred in command.

An immediate message is created by the sender at the time it is sent.
An immediate message is not stored in a message file. An example of an immediate
message received at a display station is: From . . . : QSYSOPR 06/12/05 10:50:54
System going down at 11:00; please sign off

Interactive system users can send only immediate messages and replies.
OPM
programs or ILE procedures can send immediate messages or predefined messages
with user-defined data. In addition, programs or procedures can:
Receive messages
Retrieve a message description from a message file and place it into a
program variable
Remove messages from a message queue
Monitor for messages

Your system comes with an extensive set of predefined messages that
allow communication between programs within the system and between the system
and its users. Each licensed program you order has a message file that is
stored in the same library as the licensed program it applies to. For example,
system messages are stored in the file QCPFMSG in the library QSYS.
The
system uniquely identifies each predefined message in a message file by a
7-character code and defines it by a message description. The message description
contains information such as message text and message help text, severity
level, valid and default reply values, and various other attributes.
All
messages that are sent or received in the system are transmitted through a
message queue. Messages that are issued in response to a direct request,
such as a command, are automatically displayed on the display from which the
request was made. For all other messages, the user, program, or procedure
must receive the message from the queue or display it. There are several IBM-supplied
message queues in the system.
The system also writes some of the messages
that are issued to logs. A job log contains information related to requests
entered for a job; the history log contains job, subsystem, and device status
information.

Defining message descriptions
Predefined messages are stored in a message file.
Message queues
All messages on the system are sent
to a message queue. The system user or program associated with the message
queue receives the message from the queue. Similarly, a reply to a message
is sent back to the message queue of the user or program that requested the
reply.
Commands used to send messages to a system user
Several commands can be used to send messages to system users.
Commands used to send messages from a CL program
The Send Program Message (SNDPGMMSG) command
or the Send User Message (SNDUSRMSG) command is used to
send a message from a CL procedure or program.
Receiving messages into a CL procedure or program
To obtain a message from a message queue for your procedure or
program, use the Receive Message (RCVMSG) command.
Retrieving message descriptions from a message file
To retrieve the text of a message from a message
file into a variable in a CL program or procedure, use the Retrieve
Message (RTVMSG) command. The RTVMSG command
operates on predefined message descriptions.
Removing messages from a message queue
Messages are held on a message queue until they are removed.
Monitoring for messages in a CL program or procedure
Messages that can be monitored are *ESCAPE, *STATUS, and *NOTIFY
messages that are issued by each CL command used in the program or procedure.
Receiving a message from a program or procedure that has ended
Occasionally, there is a need to receive messages from the job
log that are sent to a call message queue that is no longer active.
Break-handling programs
A break-handling program is one that is automatically
called when a message arrives at a message queue that is in *BREAK mode.
Ways of handling replies to inquiry messages
Handling replies includes using a sender copy message
to obtain a reply, finding the job that sent a reply, using the system reply
list, and using reply handling exit programs.
Message subfiles in a CL program or procedure
In CL programs and procedures, message subfiles are the only type
of subfiles supported. Message subfiles let a controlling program or procedure
display one or more error messages.
Log messages
There are two types of logs for messages: job logs and history
logs.
QSYSMSG message queue
QSYSMSG is a queue that you can create if you plan to handle the
list of serious messages that are sent to the queue.

Parent topic: Control language

Related concepts
Types of message queues

Related tasks
Allocating resources
Checking for the existence of an object
Sending and receiving data with a display file

Related reference
Monitor Message command

Related information
Add Message Description (ADDMSGD) command