Embedding a statement in an application program

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > How SQL statements are invoked > How SQL statements are invoked

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > How SQL statements are invoked

Embedding a statement in an application program
SQL statements can be included in a source program that
will be submitted to the precompiler by using the CRTSQLCBL, CRTSQLCBLI,
CRTSQLCI, CRTSQLCPPI, CRTSQLPLI, CRTSQLRPG, or CRTSQLRPGI commands.
Such statements are said to be embedded in the program.
An embedded statement can be placed anywhere in the program
where a host language statement is allowed. Each embedded statement
must be preceded by a keyword (or keywords) to indicate that the statement
is an SQL statement:
In C, COBOL, PL/I, and RPG, each embedded statement must be preceded
by the keywords EXEC and SQL.
In Java™, each embedded statement
must be preceded by the keywords #sql.
In REXX,
each embedded statement must be preceded by the keyword EXECSQL.

Executable statementsAn executable statement embedded in an application
program is executed every time a statement of the host language would
be executed if specified in the same place. This means that a statement
within a loop is executed every time the loop is executed, and a statement
within a conditional construct is executed only when the condition
is satisfied.
An embedded statement can contain references to variables.
A variable referenced in this way can be used in two ways:
As input (the current value of the variable is used in the execution
of the statement)
As output (the variable is assigned a new value as a result of
executing the statement)

In particular, all references to variables in expressions
and predicates are effectively replaced by current values of the variables;
that is, the variables are used as input. The treatment of other references
is described individually for each statement.
Follow all executable statements with a test of the SQL
return state or the SQL return code. Alternatively, the WHENEVER statement
(which is itself nonexecutable) can be used to change the flow of
control immediately after the execution of an embedded statement.
Objects referenced in SQL statements need not exist when
the statements are prepared.
Nonexecutable statementsAn embedded nonexecutable statement is processed
only by the precompiler. The precompiler reports any errors encountered
in the statement. The statement is never executed, and acts
as a no-operation if placed among executable statements of the application
program. Therefore, do not follow such statements by a test of an
SQL return code.

Parent topic: How SQL statements are invoked