What's New in V3R7?

What's New in V3R7?Last Updated: 2025-10-07

The major enhancements to RPG IV since V3R6 are the new support
for database null fields, and the ability to better control the precision
of intermediate results in expressions. Other enhancements include
the addition of a floating point data type and support for null-terminated
strings. These further improve the RPG product for integration with
the operating system and ILE interlanguage communication.
This means greater flexibility for developing applications.

The following is a list of these enhancements including a number
of new built-in functions and usability enhancements:

Support for database null fields
This enhancement allows users
to process database files which contain null-capable fields, by allowing
these fields to be tested for null and set to null.

Expression intermediate result precision
A new control specification
keyword and new operation code extenders on free-form expression specifications
allow the user better control over the precision of intermediate results.

New floating point data type
The new floating point data type
has a much larger range of values than other data types. The addition
of this data type will improve integration with the database and improve
interlanguage communication in an ILE environment, specifically with
the C and C++ languages.

Support for null terminated strings
The new support for null
terminated strings improves interlanguage communication. It allows
users full control over null terminated data by allowing users to
define and process null terminated strings, and to conveniently pass
character data as parameters to procedures which expect null terminated
strings.

Pointer addition and subtraction
Free-form expressions have
been enhanced to allow adding an offset to a pointer, subtracting
an offset from a pointer, and determining the difference between two
pointers.

Support for long names
Names longer than 10 characters have
been added to the RPG language. Anything defined on the definition
or procedure specifications can have a long name and these names can
be used anywhere where they fit within the bounds of an entry. In
addition, names referenced on any free-form specification may be continued
over multiple lines.

New built-in functions
A number of new built-in functions have
been added to the language which improve the following language facilities:

editing (%EDITW, %EDITC, %EDITFLT)

scanning strings (%SCAN)

type conversions (%INT, %FLOAT, %DEC, %UNS)

type conversions with half-adjust (%INTH, %DECH, %UNSH)

precision of intermediate results for decimal expressions (%DEC)

length and decimals of variables and expressions (%LEN, %DECPOS)

absolute value (%ABS)

set and test null-capable fields (%NULLIND)

handle null terminated strings (%STR)

Conditional compilation
RPG IV has been extended to support
conditional compilation. This support will include the following:

defining conditions (/DEFINE, /UNDEFINE),

testing conditions (/IF, /ELSEIF, /ELSE, /ENDIF)

stop reading current source file (/EOF)

a new command option (DEFINE) to define up to 32 conditions on
the CRTBNDRPG and CRTRPGMOD commands.

Date enhancements
Several enhancements have been made to improve
date handling operations. The TIME operation code is extended to support
Date, Time or Timestamp fields in the result field. Moving dates
or times from and to character fields no longer requires separator
characters. Moving UDATE and *DATE fields no longer requires a format
code to be specified. Date fields can be initialized to the system
(*SYS) or job (*JOB) date on the definition specifications.

Character comparisons with alternate collating sequence
Specific
character variables can be defined so that the alternate collating
sequence is not used in comparisons.

Nested /COPY members
You can now nest /COPY directives. That
is, a /COPY member may contain one (or more) /COPY directives which
can contain further /COPY directives and so on.

Storage management
You can now use the new storage management
operation codes to allocate, reallocate and deallocate storage dynamically.

Status codes for storage management and float underflow errors.
Two
status codes 425 and 426 have been added to indicate storage management
errors. Status code 104 was added to indicate that an intermediate
float result is too small.

The following tables summarize the changed and new language elements,
based on the part of the language affected.

Table 1. Changed Language Elements Since V3R6

Language Unit

Element

Description

Definition specification keywords

ALIGN

ALIGN can now be used to align float subfields along with the
previously supported integer and unsigned alignment.

 

OPTIONS(*NOPASS *OMIT
*VARSIZE *STRING)

The *STRING option allows you to pass a character value as
a null-terminated string.

Record address type

F (Float format)

Added to the list of allowed record address types on the file
description specifications. Signals float processing for a program
described file.

Internal data type

F (Float format)

Added to the list of allowed internal data types on the definition
specifications. Defines a floating point standalone field, parameter,
or data structure subfield.

Data format

F (Float format)

Added to the list of allowed data formats on the
input
and output specifications
for program described files.

Table 2. New Language Elements Since V3R6

Language Unit

New

Description

Control specification keywords

COPYNEST('1-2048')

Specifies the maximum depth for nesting of /COPY directives.

 

EXPROPTS(*MAXDIGITS | *RESDECPOS)

Expression options for type of precision (default or "Result
Decimal Position" precision rules)

 

FLTDIV{(*NO | *YES)}

Indicates that all divide operations in expressions are computed
in floating point.

Definition specification keywords

ALTSEQ(*NONE)

Forces the normal collating sequence to be used for character
comparison even when an alternate collating sequence is specified.

Built-in functions

%ABS

Returns the absolute value of the numeric expression specified
as the parameter.

 

%DEC
and %DECH

Converts the value of the numeric expression to decimal (packed)
format with the number of digits and decimal positions specified as
parameters. %DECH is the same as %DEC, but with a half adjust applied.

 

%DECPOS

Returns the number of decimal positions of the numeric variable
or expression. The value returned is a constant, and may be used where
a constant is expected.

 

%EDITC

This function returns a character result representing the numeric
value edited according to the edit code.

 

%EDITFLT

Converts the value of the numeric expression to the character
external display representation of float.

 

%EDITW

This function returns a character result representing the numeric
value edited according to the edit word.

 

%FLOAT

Converts the value of the numeric expression to float format.

 

%INT
and %INTH

Converts the value of the numeric expression to integer. Any
decimal digits are truncated with %INT and rounded with %INTH.

 

%LEN

Returns the number of digits or characters of the variable
expression.

 

%NULLIND

Used to query or set the null indicator for null-capable fields.

 

%SCAN

Returns the first position of the search argument in the source
string, or 0 if it was not found.

 

%STR

Used to create or use null-terminated strings, which are very
commonly used in C and C++ applications.

 

%UNS
and %UNSH

Converts the value of the numeric expression to unsigned format.
Any decimal digits are truncated with %UNS and rounded with %UNSH.

Operation code Extenders

N

Sets pointer to *NULL after successful DEALLOC

 

M

Default precision rules

 

R

No intermediate value will have fewer decimal positions than
the result ("Result Decimal Position"
precision rules)

Operation codes

ALLOC

Used to allocate storage dynamically.

 

DEALLOC

Used to deallocate storage dynamically.

 

REALLOC

Used to reallocate storage dynamically.