Remove Trace (RMVTRC)

Remove Trace (RMVTRC)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Remove Trace (RMVTRC) command removes all or part of the traces previously specified in one or more Add Trace (ADDTRC) commands for use in debugging the programs. Any trace data already created by the traces being removed is not affected by this command. This data can be removed by the Clear Trace Data (CLRTRCDTA) command. The tracing limits specified in the Change Debug (CHGDBG) or Start Debug (STRDBG) commands are not changed.

On the Remove Trace (RMVTRC) command, the user specifies the HLL statement identifiers or the machine instruction numbers that correspond to the ranges that he no longer wants traced. To remove a trace, exactly the same range as specified on the Add Trace (ADDTRC) command must be specified. A maximum of five sets of trace ranges can be specified in one command.

Restrictions:

- You can use this command only in debug mode. To start debug mode, refer to the Start Debug (STRDBG) command.

- You cannot use this command if you are servicing another job, and that job is on a job queue, or is being held, suspended, or ended.

- You cannot use this command to remove a trace from a bound program.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
STMT | Trace statements to remove | Single values: *ALL
Other values (up to 5 repetitions): Element list | Optional, Positional 1
Element 1: Starting statement identifier | Character value
Element 2: Ending statement identifier | Character value
PGM | Program | Name, *DFTPGM, *ALL | Optional, Positional 2

Top

Trace statements to remove (STMT)

Specifies the statement identifiers or machine instruction numbers of the trace statements that are no longer to be traced. To remove a trace from a program, the same statement identifiers must be specified here that were specified on the Add Trace (ADDTRC) command unless *ALL is specified.

The method used to specify the trace statements on the ADDTRC command (that is, HLL statement identifiers versus machine instruction numbers) must also be used here to remove them.

*ALL
All high-level language (HLL) statements and/or machine instructions in the specified programs are no longer traced regardless of how the trace was defined by the Add Trace (ADDTRC) command.

start-statement-identifier stop-statement-identifier
Specify the HLL statement identifier (or the machine instruction number) of the first trace statement to be removed and, optionally, the identifier of the last statement to be removed from future tracing. However, if the last statement was specified on the Add Trace (ADDTRC) command, the last statement must also be specified here. As many as five trace ranges can be specified in the program for each use of this command.
The method used to specify the trace statements on the Add Trace (ADDTRC) command (that is, HLL statement identifiers versus machine instruction numbers) must also be used here to remove them.

Top

Program (PGM)

Specifies the program (or all programs) containing the trace statements to be removed from future tracing operations.

*DFTPGM
The program previously specified as the default program contains the statements to be removed from tracing.

*ALL
All programs that currently have trace ranges in them have all of their trace ranges removed; no tracing can be done in any of the programs in debug mode unless more traces are added by the ADDTRC command. *ALL is not valid unless no value is supplied for the Trace statements to remove (STMT) parameter.

name
Specify the name of the program that has the specified trace statements (or all trace statements) removed.

Top

Examples

RMVTRC

This command removes all the trace statements used for tracing in the program currently specified as the default program.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF1999
Errors occurred on command.

Top