Numeric or Numeric-Edited

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > MOVE Statement > Elementary Moves > Elementary Moves

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > MOVE Statement > Elementary Moves

Numeric or Numeric-Edited
If the receiver is numeric, alignment by decimal point and any necessary
zero filling take place, as described under Alignment Rules.
If the receiving item is signed, the sign of the sending item is placed
in the receiving item, with any necessary sign conversion. If the sending
item is unsigned, a positive operational sign is generated for the receiving
item.
If the receiving item is unsigned, the absolute value of the sending item
is moved, and no operational sign is generated for the receiving item.
When the sending item is alphanumeric, the data is moved as if the sending
item were described as an unsigned integer.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension When the sending item is floating-point, the data is
first converted to either a binary or internal decimal representation and
is then moved. End of IBM Extension End of IBM Extension
De-editing allows the moving of a numeric-edited data
item into a numeric or numeric-edited receiver. The compiler accomplishes
this by first establishing the unedited value of the numeric-edited item (this
value can be signed), then moving the unedited numeric value to the receiving
numeric or numeric-edited data item.

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension When the sending item is date-time, the date-time item is first de-editied.
The unedited value of the date-time item is then moved to the receiving numeric
or numeric-edited data item.
If the receiver is numeric-edited, it may be specified with or without
a LOCALE phrase. If the LOCALE phrase of the PICTURE clause has not been specified in its data description entry, the data moved
to the edited data item is aligned by decimal point with zero fill or truncation
at either end as required within the receiving character positions of the
data item, except where editing requirements cause replacement of the leading
zeroes. If the LOCALE phrase has been specified, alignment
and zero-fill truncation take place as described in LOCALE Phrase.
If the receiving item is alphanumeric or numeric-edited, and the sending
item is a scaled integer (that is, has a P as the rightmost character in its
PICTURE character-string), the scaling positions are treated as trailing zeros
when the MOVE statement is executed.
If the receiving item is numeric and the sending item is
alphanumeric literal, national literal, or ALL literal,
then all characters of the literal must be numeric
characters.

End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

Parent topic: Elementary Moves