Condition for ICF files (positions 7 through 16)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS Reference: ICF Files > Define an ICF file using DDS

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS Reference: ICF Files > Define an ICF file using DDS

Condition for ICF files (positions 7 through 16)

Positions 7 through 16 are a multiple-field
area in which you can specify option indicators.

Option indicators are 2-digit numbers from 01 to
99. Your program can set option indicators on (hexadecimal F1) or off (hexadecimal
F0) to select a keyword for output operations. In ICF files, option indicators
are valid only for record- and file-level keywords.
A
condition is an AND grouping of two through nine indicators that must all
be in effect before the keyword is selected. For the indicators to be in effect,
they are set off if the letter N is specified, or set on if N is not specified.
You can specify a maximum of nine indicators for each condition and nine conditions
for each keyword. Therefore, a maximum of 81 indicators can be specified for
each keyword, when nine indicators are used with nine conditions. An AND condition
occurs when you specify a condition requiring that more than one indicator
must be on or off before the condition is satisfied and the keyword is selected.
You can join the first indicator with the second, and the third, and so on,
by AND to form a condition. You must specify the keyword on the same line
as the last (or only) set of indicators specified.
You can also specify several conditions for a keyword such that
if any one of them is satisfied, the keyword is selected. This is called an
OR relationship. You can join the first condition with the second condition,
and the third condition, and so on, by OR. Note that conditions within the
OR relationship can consist of just one indicator or several indicators joined
by AND. Indicators can be joined by AND to form a condition. Conditions can
be joined by OR to give your program several ways to select the keyword.
Specify the conditions by entering the following values:
Position 7 (AND)

If you need more than three indicators to form an AND condition,
specify the indicators on the next line or lines. You can specify an A in
position 7 on the second or following lines to continue the AND condition,
or you can leave it blank because A is the default.

Position 7 (OR)

If you specify several conditions that are to be joined
together by OR, each condition must start on a new line and each condition,
except the first, must have an O in position 7. An O specified for the first
condition produces a warning message, and that position is assumed to be blank.

Positions 8, 11, 14 (NOT)

If you want an indicator to be off instead of on to satisfy a condition,
specify an N in the position just preceding the indicator (position 8, 11,
or 14).

Specifying a condition for more than one keyword for ICF filesIf you want to specify a condition for one or more keywords, the
last (or only) indicator must appear on the same line as the keywords. If
the condition applies to keywords on more than one line, you must use keyword
continuation for the indicators to apply to all keywords.