Change Communications Entry (CHGCMNE)

Change Communications Entry (CHGCMNE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Change Communications Entry (CHGCMNE) command is used to change the attributes of an existing communications entry in an existing subsystem description.

Notes:

- When the Job description (JOBD) or Default user profile (DFTUSR) parameters are changed, the communications entry also changes; however, the values of these parameters are not changed for any jobs that are active at the time.

- If the value of the Maximum active jobs (MAXACT) parameter is reduced to a number less than the total number of jobs that are active through the communications entry, no new program start requests are processed. Active jobs continue to run; but no additional program start requests are processed until the number of active jobs is less than the value specified for the MAXACT parameter.

Restrictions:

- To use this command, you must have:

object operational (*OBJOPR), object management (*OBJMGT), and read (*READ) authority to the specified subsystem description and execute (*EXECUTE) authority to the library containing that subsystem description.

object operational (*OBJOPR) and read (*READ) authority to the job description and execute (*EXECUTE) authority to the library containing that job description.

use (*USE) authority to the user profile.

- Only a user with all object (*ALLOBJ) special authority is allowed to change an entry for which the job description does not exist.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
SBSD | Subsystem description | Qualified object name | Required, Positional 1
Qualifier 1: Subsystem description | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
DEV | Device | Generic name, name, *ALL, *APPC, *ASYNC, *BSCEL, *FINANCE, *INTRA, *RETAIL, *SNUF | Optional, Positional 2
RMTLOCNAME | Remote location | Communications name | Optional, Positional 3
JOBD | Job description | Single values: *SAME, *USRPRF, *SBSD
Other values: Qualified object name | Optional, Positional 4
Qualifier 1: Job description | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB
DFTUSR | Default user profile | Name, *SAME, *NONE, *SYS | Optional
MODE | Mode | Communications name, *ANY | Optional
MAXACT | Maximum active jobs | 0-32000, *SAME, *NOMAX | Optional

Top

Subsystem description (SBSD)

Specifies the name and library of the subsystem description that contains the communications entry that is being changed.

This is a required parameter.

Qualifier 1: Subsystem description

name
Specify the name of the subsystem for the communications entry that is being changed.
Note: The IBM-supplied object QSYSSBSD is not valid on this parameter.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the thread's library list are searched until a match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the thread is used to locate the object. If no library is specified as the current library for the thread, the QGPL library is used.

name
Specify the library where the subsystem description is located.

Top

Device (DEV)

Specifies the name of the device description or the type of the device being used with this communications entry.

Note: You must specify a value on either this parameter or the Remote location (RMTLOCNAME) parameter, but not both.

*ALL
All communications device types or names can be used with this communications entry.

*APPC
All advanced program-to-program communications devices can be used with this communications entry. The devices created with the Create Device Desc (APPC) (CRTDEVAPPC) command can be used.

*ASYNC
All asynchronous communications devices can be used with this communications entry. The devices created with the Create Device Desc (Async) (CRTDEVASC) command can be used. This value is valid only when *ANY is specified on the Mode (MODE) parameter.

*BSCEL
All bisynchronous equivalency link communications devices can be used with this communications entry. The devices created with the Create Device Desc (BSC) (CRTDEVBSC) command can be used. This value is valid only when *ANY is specified on the Mode (MODE) parameter.

*FINANCE
Specifies that all finance communications devices can be used with this communication entry. The devices created with the Create Device Desc (Finance) (CRTDEVFNC) command can be used by this communications entry. This value is valid only when *ANY is specified on the Mode (MODE) parameter.

*INTRA
All INTRA communications devices can be used with this communications entry. The devices created with the Create Device Create Device Desc (Intra) (CRTDEVINTR) command can be used. This value is valid only when *ANY is specified on the Mode (MODE) parameter.

*RETAIL
All retail communications devices can be used with this communications entry. The devices created with the Create Device Desc (Retail) (CRTDEVRTL) command can be used by this communications entry. This value is valid only when *ANY is specified on the Mode (MODE) parameter.

*SNUF
All SNA upline facility communications devices can be used with this communications entry. The devices created with the Create Device Desc (SNUF) (CRTDEVSNUF) command are can be used. This value is valid only when *ANY is specified on the Mode (MODE) parameter.

generic-name
Specify the generic name of the device description used with this communications entry.

name
Specify the device description used with this communications entry.

Top

Remote location (RMTLOCNAME)

Specifies the name of the remote location used with this communications entry. The remote location name specified in the associated device description can be used here. No validity checking is done on the remote location name.

Note: You must specify a value for either this parameter or the Device (DEV) parameter, but not for both.

communications-name
Specify the name of the remote location used with this communications entry.

Top

Job description (JOBD)

Specifies the name and library of the job description used for jobs that are started as a result of receiving a program start request, and that are processed through this communications entry. If the job description does not exist when the entry is added or changed, a library qualifier must be specified because the qualified job description name is kept in the subsystem description.

Note: Only a user with all object (*ALLOBJ) special authority is allowed to add or change an entry for which the job description does not exist.

Single values

*SAME
The current value of this parameter does not change.

*USRPRF
The job description name that is specified in the user profile of the user that made the program start request is used for jobs that are started through this communications entry.

*SBSD
The job description name that is specified in the user profile of the user that made the program start request is used by jobs that are started through this communications entry.

Qualifier 1: Job description

name
Specify the name of the job description that is used for the jobs started through this communications entry.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the thread's library list are searched until a match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the thread is used to locate the object. If no library is specified as the current library for the thread, the QGPL library is used.

name
Specify the name of the job description's library.

Top

Default user profile (DFTUSR)

Specifies the default user profile used for a program start request that contains no security information. This user profile is not used for program start requests that contain a password or specify a user profile (either valid or not valid).

*SAME
The current value of this parameter does not change.

*NONE
No user profile is specified as the default.

*SYS
All user program start requests will be treated the same as *NONE. For program start requests sent by system functions, the request will run under a predetermined user profile if a user profile is not specified on the program start request.

name
Specify the name of the user profile that is used for all program start requests that enter the system through this communications entry and that contain no password or user profile name.

Note: The names QDFTOWN, QLPINSTALL, QSECOFR, QSPL, QDOC, QDBSHR, QRJE, QTSTRQS, and QSYS are not valid entries for this parameter.

Top

Mode (MODE)

Specifies the mode name of the communications device or remote location name whose communications entry is being added or changed.

*ANY
Any available modes defined to the communications device or remote location are allocated to the subsystem. If the communications device does not have defined modes associated with it, the communications device itself is allocated to the subsystem.

name
Specify the mode name of the communications device or remote location name that is being added or changed.

Note: The names SNASVCMG and CPSVCMG are not valid for this parameter.

Top

Maximum active jobs (MAXACT)

Specifies the maximum number of jobs (received program start requests) that can be active at the same time through this communications entry.

*SAME
The current value of this attribute is not changed.

*NOMAX
There is no maximum number of jobs that can be active at the same time through this communications entry.

1-32000
Specify the maximum number of jobs that can be active at the same time through this communications entry.

Top

Examples

CHGCMNE SBSD(QGPL/BAKER) DEV(A12) MAXACT(*NOMAX)

This command changes the communications entry (in the subsystem description QGPL/BAKER) for the device A12 and mode *ANY. The maximum activity level is changed to *NOMAX which means that the communications entry puts no restrictions on the number of program start requests that may be active at the same time. However, the MAXJOBS value in the subsystem description BAKER limits the total number of jobs that can be active in the subsystem. This includes those created by program start requests. There is also a limit that the user can specify on the number of active jobs that can be routed through any particular routing entry (MAXACT). The limit specified in the routing entry may control the number of jobs using a particular pool or the recursion level of a particular program. In all cases, none of these limits can be exceeded as a result of processing a program start request.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF1619
Subsystem description &1 in library &2 damaged.

CPF1691
Active subsystem description may or may not have changed.

CPF1697
Subsystem description &1 not changed.

Top