Forming the body of an edit word in printer files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80) > EDTWRD (Edit Word) keyword in printer files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80) > EDTWRD (Edit Word) keyword in printer files

Forming the body of an edit word in printer files

These characters have special meanings when used in the body of
an edit word.

Blank

A blank is replaced with the character from the corresponding position
of the data field. A blank position is referred to as a digit position.

Ampersand

An ampersand causes a blank in the edited field. The ampersand is not
printed.

Zero

To stop zero suppression, place a zero in the farthest-right
position where it is to stop. The zero is then replaced with the character
from the corresponding position of the data field, unless that character is
a zero. Any zeros in the data that appear to the right of the stop-zero-suppression
character are printed. The stop-zero-suppression character is considered a
digit position; however, when it is the first character, it can not represent
the digit position. At least one leading zero is suppressed. Each zero that
is suppressed is replaced by a blank.

Asterisk

Placing an asterisk in the farthest-right position where
zero suppression is to stop, stops zero suppression and replaces the zeros
with asterisks (asterisk protection). An asterisk preceding a zero is interpreted
as representing asterisk protection. In this case, the zero prints as a constant.
Any asterisks or zeros to the right of the stop-zero-suppression character
are constants.

Currency symbol

A currency symbol coded immediately to the left of the zero suppression
code causes the insertion of a currency symbol in the position to the left
of the first significant digit. It is called the floating-currency symbol when
used in this manner.
A currency symbol coded in the farthest-left
column of the edit word is fixed and prints in the same location each time.
When used in this manner, it is called the fixed-currency symbol.
The
currency symbol is not considered a digit-replace position. This symbol must
correspond to the system value QCURSYM.

Decimals and commas

Decimals and commas are printed in the same relative positions in
which they are coded in the edit word unless they are to the left of the first
significant digit. In that case, they are blanked out or replaced by an asterisk.
All
other characters are printed if they are to the right of significant digits
in the data field. If they are to the left of the high-order significant digits
in the data, they are blanked out or replaced by asterisks if asterisk protection
is being used.