Format 1 - Data Transfer

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > ACCEPT Statement > ACCEPT Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > ACCEPT Statement

Format 1 - Data Transfer

ACCEPT Statement - Format 1 - Data Transfer

>>-ACCEPT--identifier-1--+--------------------------------+----->
    '-FROM--+-mnemonic-name--------+-'   
    | (1) |    
    '-environment-name-----'    

>--+----------------+------------------------------------------><
   | (1) |   
   '-END-ACCEPT-----'   

Notes:IBM® ExtensionFormat 1 transfers data from an input device into identifier-1.
Incoming data is transferred as a character string aligned on the
leftmost character position. No data conversion will occur. If the
size of identifier-1 is greater than the record length of the input
device, then additional data will be requested after the transfer
of one record has been completed. The additional data will be transferred
into identifier-1 starting at the position immediately to the right
of the last character previously transferred from the device. This
process will continue until identifier-1 has been filled. If on any
transfer the device record holds more characters than are needed
to fill identifer-1, then the excess data will be truncated.
Since all data is transferred as a character string, identifier-1
will normally be defined, explicitly or implicitly, with usage DISPLAY.
The ACCEPT statement will, however, handle data in other formats,
provided it is possible to enter the data on the input device in a
format that corresponds to the internal representation of identifier-1.
Format 1 is useful for exception situations in a program when operator
intervention (to supply a given message, code, or exception indicator)
is required. The operator must, of course, be supplied with the appropriate
messages with which to reply.
identifier-1
The receiving data item. IBM ExtensionIBM Extension If the description of identifier-1 contains
a TYPE clause, the type-name referenced in that clause must be elementary. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Identifier-1 may be defined with usage DISPLAY-1,
that is, it may be a DBCS or DBCS-edited item. The data on the input
device must then be delimited by a shift-out and a shift-in character;
these will be removed when the data is transferred. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Identifier-1 may also be defined
as a NATIONAL item. The data accepted will be converted from the code
set specified by the job's current CCSID. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Identifier-1
may not be a date, time, or timestamp item. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension
mnemonic-name
Must be specified in the SPECIAL-NAMES paragraph, where it will
be associated with an environment-name that refers to an input device.
The input device can be the workstation used by an interactive job,
the job input stream of a batch job, or the system operator’s
console.

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension environment-name
The environment-name CONSOLE or SYSIN may be specified in place
of a mnemonic-name.

End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension Related Information: Coding Example
Source of Input Data

Source of Input Data

Coding Example

Parent topic: ACCEPT Statement