Variables Associated with Files

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > General File Considerations > General File Considerations

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > General File Considerations

Variables Associated with Files

Using File specification keywords, you can associate several variables
with a file. For example, the INFDS keyword associates a File Information
Data Structure with the file; this data structure is updated by RPG
during file operations with information about the current state of
the file. The SFILE keyword defines a numeric variable that you set
to the relative record number for a record that you are writing.

When a file is passed as a parameter, the file parameter in the
called procedure continues to be associated with the same physical
variables that it was associated with in the calling procedure. The
called procedure has access to the associated variables of the file
parameter, although this access is only available to the RPG compiler.
This allows the RPG compiler to work with the associated variables
when the called procedure performs operations on the file parameter.
If a file operation to a file parameter requires the value of an associated
variable, the current value of the associated variable will be used.
If a file operation to a file parameter changes the contents of an
associated variable, the associated variable will immediately be updated
with the new value. Passing a file parameter does not give the called
procedure direct access to the associated variables. The called procedure
can only access the associated variables if they are global variables,
or if they were passed as additional parameters to the procedure.

Tip: If you pass a file parameter to another procedure,
and the procedure needs to be able to access the associated variables,
define a data structure with a subfield for each associated variable,
and pass that data structure as an additional parameter to the procedure.
See Figure 1.
The following table lists the keywords that you can use to associate
variables with a file.
Table 1. File specification keywords for associated variables

Keyword

Usage

Description

COMMIT

Input

The RPG programmer sets it to indicate whether
the file is opened for commitment control.

DEVID

Input/Feedback

The RPG programmer sets it to direct file operations
to a particular device. The RPG compiler sets it to indicate which
device was used for the previous file operation.

EXTFILE

Input

The RPG programmer sets it to indicate the external
file that is to be opened.

EXTIND

Input

The application developer sets it before the
program is called to control whether a file is to be used.

EXTMBR

Input

The RPG programmer sets it to indicate the external
member that is to be opened.

INDDS

Input/Output

The RPG programmer sets some output-capable
indicators for use by file operation. The system sets input-capable
indicators during a operation

INFDS

Input

The RPG compiler sets it to indicate the current
state of a file.

PRTCTL

Input/Feedback

The RPG programmer sets the space and skip fields
to control the printer file.

RECNO

Input/Feedback

The RPG compiler sets it to indicate the current
line of the printer file.

SAVEDS

Any

The RPG programmer sets it to indicate which
relative record number is to be written to the subfile record.

SFILE

Input/Feedback

The RPG compiler sets it to indicate the relative
record number that was retrieved by an input operation to the subfile
record.

SLN

Input

The RPG programmer sets it to indicate the starting
line for a display file record format.

Example of passing a file and passing a data structure with the associated variables.

Parent topic: General File Considerations