Relational database

Relational database

Last Updated: 2025-10-07

A relational database is a database that
can be perceived as a set of tables and can be manipulated in accordance
with the relational model of data. The relational database contains
a set of objects used to store, access, and manage data. The set of
objects includes tables, views, indexes, aliases, user defined types,
functions, procedures, sequences, variables, and packages.

There are three types of relational databases a user can access
from an IBM i.

system relational database

There is one default relational database on an IBM i.
The system relational database is always local to that IBM i. It consists of all the database objects that exist on disk attached to the IBM i that are not stored on independent auxiliary storage pools.
For more information on independent auxiliary storage pools, see the System Management category of the IBM i
Information Center. The name of the system relational database is, by
default, the same as the IBM i system name. However, a different name can be assigned through the use of the ADDRDBDIRE (Add RDB Directory Entry) command or the Schemas support in IBM® i Access Client Solutions.

user relational database

The user may create additional relational databases on an IBM i by configuring independent auxiliary storage pools on the
system. Each primary independent auxiliary storage pool is a relational database. It consists of all
the database objects that exist on the independent auxiliary storage pool disks. Additionally, all
database objects in the system relational database of the IBM i product to which the independent auxiliary storage pool is
connected are logically included in a user relational database. Thus, the name of any schema created
in a user relational database must not already exist in that user relational database or in the
associated system relational database. Although the objects in the system relational database are
logically included in a user relational database, certain dependencies between the objects in the
system relational database and the user relational database are not allowed:

- A view must be created into a schema that exists in the same relational database as its
referenced tables and views, except that a view created into QTEMP can reference tables and views in
the user relational database.

- An index must be created into a schema that exists in the same relational database as its
referenced table.

- A trigger or constraint must be created into a schema that exists in the same relational
database as its base table.

- The parent table and dependent table in a referential constraint must both exist in the same
relational database.

- Any object in the system relational database can only reference functions, procedures,
variables, sequences, and types in the same system relational database. However, objects in the user
relational database may reference functions, procedures, variables, sequences, and types in the
system relational database or the same user relational database. However, operations on such an
object may fail if the other relational database is not available. For example, if a user relational
database is varied off and then varied on to another system.

A user relational database is local to an IBM i
while the independent auxiliary storage pool is varied on. Independent auxiliary storage pools can
be varied off on one IBM i and then varied on to another
IBM i. Hence, a user relational databases may be local to
a given IBM i at one point in time and remote at a
different point in time. For more information on independent auxiliary storage pools, see the System Management category
of the IBM i
Information Center.
The name of the user relational database is, by default, the same as the independent auxiliary storage pool name. However, a different name can be assigned through the use of the ADDRDBDIRE (Add RDB Directory Entry) command or the Schemas support in IBM i Access Client Solutions.

remote relational database

Relational databases on other IBM i and non-IBM i products can be accessed remotely. These relational databases must be registered through the use of the ADDRDBDIRE (Add RDB Directory Entry) command or the Schemas support in IBM i Access Client Solutions.

The database manager is the name used generically to identify the IBM i
Licensed Internal Code and the Db2 for
i portion of the code that manages the relational database.