Display Distribution Services (DSPDSTSRV)

Display Distribution Services (DSPDSTSRV)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Display Distribution Services (DSPDSTSRV) command shows or prints the distribution queues table, routing table, or secondary system name table defined for the local system. A detailed description of the Systems Network Architecture service (SNADS) network is in the SNA Distribution Services book, SC41-5410.

Note: This command does not allow changes to the SNADS network. Changes to the network can be made using the Configure Distribution Services (CFGDSTSRV) command.

Restriction: Messages that report errors about system names or distribution queues may show or print different characters than the user entered because of internal system transformations.

The internal value for a system name or distribution queue may differ from the characters shown by the DSPDSTSRV command, depending on the language used for the work station.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
OPTION | Menu option | *SELECT, 1, 2, 3 | Optional, Positional 1
OUTPUT | Output | *, *PRINT | Optional

Top

Menu option (OPTION)

Specifies an option from the Display Distribution Services menu that bypasses the initial menu and goes directly to the secondary displays. The list of distribution queues, the routing table, or the secondary system name table can be specified without showing the Display Distribution Services menu.

The possible values are:

*SELECT
The menu is not bypassed. The option is selected from the Display Distribution Services menu.

1
The distribution queues function is selected. This function identifies all the distribution queues for systems adjacent to your system.

2
The routing table function is selected. This function describes explicit or default entries for the destination systems in the SNADS network to which distribution queue entries can be routed.

3
The secondary system name table function is selected. This function lists all the names by which your system is known.

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether the output from the command is displayed at the requesting work station or printed with the job's spooled output.

The possible values are:

*
The output is displayed (if requested by an interactive job) or printed with the job's spooled output (if requested by a batch job).

*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output.

Top

Examples

DSPDSTSRV OUTPUT(*PRINT)

This command prints the current SNADS configuration status.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF8802
Distribution queue &1 was not found.

CPF8805
Special value for System name/Group not permitted or not used correctly.

CPF8806
Value &1 not valid for system name or system group.

CPF8807
Error occurred while using QSNADS journal.

CPF8808
SNADS cannot allocate more queue space.

CPF8809
Errors detected on SNADS internal queues.

CPF8813
No entries exist.

CPF8814
Queue &1 not found.

CPF9845
Error occurred while opening file &1.

CPF9846
Error while processing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9847
Error occurred while closing file &1 in library &2.

CPF9850
Override of printer file &1 not allowed.

Top