National Language Sort Sequence

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging ILE programs > Setting and removing breakpoints > Setting and removing breakpoints

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging ILE programs > Setting and removing breakpoints

National Language Sort Sequence
National Language Sort Sequence (NLSS) applies only
to non-numeric conditional breakpoint expressions of type Char-8.
Non-numeric conditional breakpoint expressions are divided into the following
two types:
Char- 8: each character contains 8 bits
Char-16: each character contains 16 bits (DBCS)

Table 1 shows the possible combinations of non-numeric
conditional breakpoint expressions.
The sort sequence table used by the source debugger for expressions of
type Char-8 is the sort sequence table specified for the SRTSEQ parameter
on the Create CL Module (CRTCLMOD) or Create Bound
CL Program (CRTBNDCL) commands.
If the resolved sort sequence table is *HEX, no sort sequence table is
used. Therefore, the source debugger uses the hexadecimal values of the characters
to determine the sort sequence. Otherwise, the specified sort sequence table
is used to assign weights to each byte before the comparison is made. Bytes
between, and including, shift-out/shift-in characters are not assigned weights.

Note: The name of the sort sequence table is saved during compilation. At
debug time, the source debugger uses the name saved from the compilation to
access the sort sequence table. If the sort sequence table specified at compilation
time resolves to something other than *HEX or *JOBRUN, it is important the
sort sequence table does not get altered before debugging is started. If
the table cannot be accessed because it is damaged or deleted, the source
debugger uses the *HEX sort sequence table.
Table 1. Non-numeric conditional breakpoint expressionsType
Possibilities

Char-8
Character variable compared to character variable
Character variable compared to character literal 1
Character variable compared to hex literal 2
Character literal 1 compared to character variable
Character literal 1 compared to character literal 1
Character literal 1 compared to hex literal 2
Hex literal 2 compared to character variable 1
Hex literal 2 compared to character literal 1
Hex literal 2 compared to hex literal 2

Char 16
DBCS character variable compared to DBCS character variable
DBCS character variable compared to graphic literal 3
DBCS character variable compared to hex literal 2
Graphic literal 3 compared to DBCS character variable
Graphic literal 3 compared to Graphic literal 3
Graphic literal 3 compared to hex literal 2
Hex literal 2 compared to DBCS character variable
Hex literal 2 compared to Graphic literal 3

Notes:

1
Character literal is of the form 'abc'.
2
Hexadecimal literal is of the form X'hex digits'.
3
Graphic literal is of the form G'<so>DBCS data<si>'. Shift-out
is represented as <so> and shift-in is represented as <si>.

Parent topic: Setting and removing breakpoints

Related reference
Using the BREAK and CLEAR debug commands to set and remove conditional breakpoints