Character encoding schemes

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Data types > Data types

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Data types

Character encoding schemes
Each character string is further defined as one of four
types.
Bit data
Data that is not associated with a coded character
set and is therefore never converted. The CCSID for bit data is 65535.Note: Bit
data is a form of character data. The pad character is a blank for
assignments to bit data; the pad character is X'00' for assignments
to binary data. It is recommended that the binary data type be used
instead of character for bit data.

SBCS data
Data in which every character is represented by a
single byte. Each SBCS data character string has an associated CCSID.
If necessary, an SBCS string is converted before it is used in an
operation with a character string that has a different CCSID.
Mixed data
Data that may contain
a mixture of characters from a single-byte character set (SBCS) and
a double-byte character set (DBCS). Each mixed string has an associated
CCSID. If necessary, a mixed data character string is converted before
an operation with a character string that has a different CCSID.
If mixed data contains a DBCS character, it cannot be converted to
SBCS data.
Unicode data
Data
that contains characters represented by one or more bytes. Each Unicode
character string is encoded using UTF-8. The CCSID for UTF-8 is 1208.

The database manager does not recognize subclasses of
double-byte characters, and it does not assign any specific meaning
to particular double-byte codes. However, if you choose to use mixed
data, then two single-byte EBCDIC codes are given special meanings:
X'0E', the “shift-out” character, is used to mark the
beginning of a sequence of double-byte codes.
X'0F', the “shift-in” character, is used to mark the
end of a sequence of double-byte codes.

In order for the database manager to recognize double-byte
characters in a mixed data character string, the following condition
must be met:
Within the string, the double-byte characters must be enclosed
between paired shift-out and shift-in characters. The pairing
is detected as the string is read from left to right. The code X'0E' is
recognized as a shift out character if X'0F' occurs later;
otherwise, it is invalid. The first X'0F' following the X'0E' that
is on a double-byte boundary is the paired shift-in character. Any X'0F' that
is not on a double-byte boundary is not recognized.
There must
be an even number of bytes between the paired characters, and each
pair of bytes is considered to be a double-byte character. There can
be more than one set of paired shift-out and shift-in characters in
the string.

The length of a mixed data character string is its total
number of bytes, counting two bytes for each double-byte character
and one byte for each shift-out or shift-in character.
When the job CCSID indicates that DBCS is allowed, CREATE
TABLE will create character columns as DBCS-Open fields, unless FOR
BIT DATA, FOR SBCS DATA, or an SBCS CCSID is specified. The SQL user
will see these as character fields, but the system database support
will see them as DBCS-Open fields. For a definition of a DBCS-Open
field, see the Database programming topic collection.

Parent topic: Data types