DUP (Duplication) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

DUP (Duplication) keyword for display files

You use this field-level keyword to activate
the Dup key on the display station keyboard.

Press the Dup key when the cursor is in this input-capable
field. This indicates that data for this field is to be duplicated from the
record sent in the previous input operation. The actual duplication is the
responsibility of your program.

See System/36 environment considerations for display files for special considerations
when specifying the DUP keyword in files that are used in the System/36 environment.

The format of the keyword is: DUP[(response-indicator ['text'])]

You cannot specify the DUP keyword on a floating-point field (F in position
35).

You should specify a response indicator for a numeric field defined with
this keyword. Hex 1Cs for numeric fields will not be returned to your buffer,
but hex F0s will be returned for the remaining field positions.

Option indicators are valid for this keyword.

Restrictions on validity checkingValidity checking keywords
(CHECK, COMP, RANGE, and VALUES) can be specified with the DUP keyword. However,
they have no effect if the Dup key has been pressed.
If another field
in the record format fails validity checking, the IBM® i operating
system tries to read the display again. The DUP response indicator is still
returned to your program in the on condition, even if the workstation user
does not type over the DUP characters or presses the Dup key again.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the DUP keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R RECORD1
00020A FLDA 5 I 3 2
00030A 15 DUP(16 'FLDA was duped')
00040A FLDAH 5 2H
AFLDA is an input-capable character and hexadecimal field
for which the workstation user can press the Dup key. In your program, you
must test the data in FLDA to ensure that it includes only the digits 0 through
9. In RPG III, you can use the TESTN operation code. In COBOL, you can use
a numeric class test. In BASIC, you can specify an ON CONV statement earlier
in the program than the statement with which you assign FLDA to FLDAH. In
PL/I, you can specify an ON statement with the ERROR condition earlier in
the program than the statement with which you assign FLDA to FLDAH.
Field
FLDAH is a hidden numeric field with the same length as FLDA. When the application
program reads RECORD1 and finds response indicator 16 set off, the program
moves FLDA to FLDAH and uses FLDAH (which is a numeric field). When the application
program reads RECORD1 and finds response indicator 16 set on, the Dup key
was pressed and FLDA contains hex 1Cs. The program uses FLDAH without changing
its contents (which are the contents from the previous input received from
the display device).