Work With LAN Adapters (WRKLANADPT)

Work With LAN Adapters (WRKLANADPT)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Work with Local Area Network Adapters (WRKLANADPT) command shows a list of active local area network (LAN) adapters.

Notes:

- To determine whether network adapters are active or inactive, the LAN manager performs a query of all adapters that are entered in the network adapter file. Adapters that respond to the query are identified as being active on the network; those that do not respond are identified as being inactive on the network.

- Adapters that are not currently entered in the network adapter file are automatically added, and a default adapter name is assigned. The default adapter name consists of the character D, followed by the last nine digits of the adapter address.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
LINE | Line description | Name | Required, Positional 1
OUTPUT | Output | *, *PRINT | Optional

Top

Line description (LINE)

Specifies the name of the line that is attached to the adapters to be displayed.

This is a required parameter.

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether the output from the command is displayed at the requesting work station or printed with the job's spooled output.

*
The output is displayed for interactive jobs or printed with the job's spooled output for non-interactive jobs.

*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output.

Top

Examples

WRKLANADPT LINE(DETBRANCH)

This command displays a list of adapters that are connected to the DETBRANCH line.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF8B68
Line description &23 not found.

CPF8B69
Line description &23 not valid for requested action.

CPF8B72
Change failed. Adapter &29 not found in network adapter file.

CPF8B74
Request to display active adapters failed.

CPF8B75
No adapter entries in network adapter file.

CPF8B76
No functional addresses for adapter.

Top