Add License Information (ADDPRDLICI)

Add License Information (ADDPRDLICI)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Add Product License Information (ADDPRDLICI) command adds license information to the product or feature. This command can be used before or after the product or options belonging to a feature are packaged using the Package Product Option (PKGPRDOPT) command, but before the product or options belonging to a feature are installed. If the product has keyed (*KEYED) compliance, a product license information handle is included in the completion message received from this command.

For more information, see the Add Product License Information (QLZADDLI) API.

Restrictions:

- This command is shipped with exclude (*EXCLUDE) public authority. The QPGMR, QSYSOPR, QSRV, and QSRVBAS user profiles are shipped with private authorities to use this command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
PRDID | Product ID | Character value | Required, Positional 1
RLS | Release | Character value | Required, Positional 2
FEATURE | Feature | Character value, 5001 | Optional
USGTYPE | Usage type | *CONCURRENT, *REGISTERED | Optional
COMPLIANCE | Compliance type | *OPRACTION, *WARNING, *KEYED | Optional
DFTUSGLMT | Default usage limit | 0-999999, 1, *NOMAX | Optional
LICTRM | License term | *VERSION, *RELEASE, *MOD | Optional
MSGID | Feature message ID | Name, *BASEOPT | Optional
ALWLICRLS | Allow license release | *NO, *YES | Optional
VNDPWD | Vendor password | Simple name, *NONE | Optional
GRACE | Grace period | Element list | Optional
Element 1: Days | 0-999, 0
Element 2: Allow for default usage limit | *NO, *YES

Top

Product ID (PRDID)

Specifies the 7-character identifier of the product for which the license information is being added.

Top

Release (RLS)

Specifies the version, release, and modification level of the product or feature to which the license information is being added.

The possible values are:

character-value
Specify the version, release, and modification level of the product or feature where the license information is being added. Specify the release level in one of the following formats:

- VxRyMz, where Vx is the version number, Ry is the release number, and Mz is the modification level. The variables x and y can be a number from 0 through 9, and the variable z can be a number from 0 through 9 or a letter from A through Z.

- vvrrmm, where version vv and release rr must be a number from 00 through 35, and modification mm must be a number from 00 through 09 or a letter from 0A through 0Z. The leading zeros are required. This format must be used if the version or release of the product is greater than 9.

Top

Feature (FEATURE)

Specifies the feature (load id) for which the license information is being added. The license information is added to all product loads with the specified product ID and feature.

5001
License information for the 5001 feature of the product specified on the PRDID parameter is added.

load-ID
Specify a code load id in the range from 5001 to 9999.

Top

Usage type (USGTYPE)

Specifies the type of license usage.

The possible values are:

*CONCURRENT
The usage limit is for the number of unique jobs accessing the product or feature at one time.

*REGISTERED
The usage limit is for the number of unique license users registered by the product or feature.

Top

Compliance type (COMPLIANCE)

Specifies the action that must be taken when the usage limit is exceeded.

The possible values are:

*OPRACTION
The usage limit cannot be exceeded. If you attempt to use the product or feature after the usage limit has been reached, you are prevented from accessing the product or feature until the appropriate action is taken by the system administrator to increase the usage limit.

*WARNING
If you attempt to use the product or feature after the usage limit has been reached, you are allowed access. A warning message indicating that the usage limit has been exceeded is sent to the licensing information owner for notification.

*KEYED
A license key is required from the software provider to install or to increase the usage limit of the product or feature. The software provided can permit a grace period which allows the usage limit of a product or feature to be exceeded for n days before a new license key is required to allow additional users access to the product. If a new key with an increased usage limit is not installed prior to the end of the grace period, the usage limit of the product reverts back to the entitled usage limit.

Top

Default usage limit (DFTUSGLMT)

Specifies the usage limit that is in effect the first time the product or feature is installed for a license term.

Note: For *KEYED compliance, this is the number of users that are able to use the product or feature before the license key is installed using the Add License Key (ADDLICKEY) command or Add License Key Information (QLZAADDK) API. To prevent any access to the product or feature without a key, the default usage limit should be set to 0.

The possible values are:

1
One user is allowed to access the product or feature.

*NOMAX
Any number of users are allowed to access the product or feature.

default-usage-limit
Specify the default usage limit number. The valid values range from 0 through 999999.

Top

License term (LICTRM)

Specifies which levels of the product or feature share license information.

The possible values are:

*VERSION
The authorized usage limit is valid for the entire version of the product or feature. Each time a new version is installed, the authorized usage limit must be set by using the Work with License Information (WRKLICINF) command or the Change License Information (CHGLICINF) command. For a compliance type of *KEYED, a new license key must also be obtained from the software provider. However, products with keyed compliance must set the usage limit by using the Add License Key Information (ADDLICKEY) command. This command also requires that a license key be obtained from the software provider to allow use of the product.

*RELEASE
The authorized usage limit is valid for the entire release of the product or feature. Each time a new release is installed, the authorized usage limit must be set by using the Work with License Information (WRKLICINF) command or the Change License Information (CHGLICINF) command. For a compliance type of *KEYED, a new license key must also be obtained from the software provider. However, products with keyed compliance must set the usage limit by using the Add License Key Information (ADDLICKEY) command. This command also requires that a license key be obtained from the software provider to allow use of the product.

*MOD
The authorized usage limit is valid only for a modification of the product. Each time a new modification is installed, the authorized usage limit must be set by using the Work with License Information (WRKLICINF) command or the Change License Information (CHGLICINF) command. However, products with keyed compliance must set the usage limit by using the Add License Key Information (ADDLICKEY) command. This command also requires that a license key be obtained from the software provider to allow use of the product.

Top

Feature message ID (MSGID)

Specifies the message identifier of the message that describes the product feature. The message file for this message ID is specified in the product definition.

The possible values are:

*BASEOPT
There is no message describing this product feature. The message used for describing the base option of this product is used.

feature-message-id
Specify the message identifier of the message that describes this product feature.

Top

Allow license release (ALWLICRLS)

Specifies whether a license that is previously requested can be released using the Work with License Information (WRKLICINF) command. When the license is released, the usage count is decreased. This value can only be specified for a registered license type.

If it is necessary for the product to be notified that a license has been released, *NO should be specified and the product must provide its own mechanism for releasing a license.

The possible values are:

*NO
A license cannot be released using the Work with License Information (WRKLICINF) command.

*YES
A license can be released using the Work with License Information (WRKLICINF) command.

Top

Vendor password (VNDPWD)

Specifies the software vendor's password. This password is encrypted and stored with the product. It is used in validating Add License Key requests and must be the same password used to generate keys for this product and feature on the Generate License Key (GENLICKEY) command.

The possible values are:

*NONE
There is no vendor password needed for the Generate License Key (GENLICKEY) command.

vendor-password
Specify the vendor password. It must begin with an alphabetic character such as A through Z, $, # or @. It is then followed by no more than 9 alphanumeric characters such as A through Z, 0 through 9, $, # @ or _.

Top

Grace period (GRACE)

Specifies the number of days after a product first exceeds its usage limit that you have to obtain a new license key. If a new license key is not obtained from the software vendor by the time the grace period is expired, no users over the usage limit are allowed to access the product or feature. When the usage limit is first exceeded, the date the grace period expires is calculated by adding the number of days in the grace period to today's date.

The possible number grace period days values are:

0
There is no grace period. The user is not allowed to exceed the usage limit.

grace-period
Specify the number of days in the grace period. Valid values range from 0 through 999.

The possible values for allowing for a default usage limit are:

*NO
The grace period is not allowed for use with the default usage limit. This means that you are not allowed to exceed the default usage limit before the license key is installed using the Add License Key command (ADDLICKEY) or Add License Key Information (QLZAADDK) API.

*YES
The grace period is allowed for use with the default usage limit. This means that you can exceed the default usage limit for the number of days in the grace period before the license key is installed.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Adding Product License Information

ADDPRDLICI PRDID(1MYPROD) RLS(V1R2M0)

This command adds product license information to the product with product identifier 1MYPROD for release V1R2M0.

Example 2: Adding Product License Information for the V1R2M0 Release

ADDPRDLICI PRDID(1MYPROD) RLS(V1R2M0) COMPLIANCE(*KEYED)
VNDPWD(PRODUCTPWD) GRACE(30 *YES)

This command adds product license information to the product with the product identifier 1MYPROD for release V1R2M0. This product supports keyed compliance. It can exceed its usage limit and default usage for 30 days. Password PRODUCTPWD is used in validating Add License Key requests.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF9899
Error occurred during processing of command.

Top