OPEN

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

OPEN
The OPEN statement opens a cursor so that it can be used
to fetch rows from its result table.
InvocationThis statement can only be embedded
in an application program. It is an executable statement that cannot
be dynamically prepared. It must not be specified in Java™.
Authorization If a global variable
is referenced in a statement, the privileges held by the authorization
ID of the statement must include at least one of the following:
For the global variable identified in the statement, The READ privilege on the global variable, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the global
variable

Database administrator authority

See DECLARE CURSOR for the authorization
required to use a cursor.
SyntaxOPENcursor-nameUSING,variableUSING SQL DESCRIPTORLOCALGLOBALSQL-descriptor-nameUSING DESCRIPTORdescriptor-name
Descriptioncursor-name
Identifies
the cursor to be opened. The cursor-name must
identify a declared cursor as explained in the Notes for the DECLARE CURSOR statement.
When the OPEN statement is executed, the cursor must be in the closed
state. The SELECT statement associated with the cursor is either:

The select-statement specified in the
DECLARE CURSOR statement, or
The prepared select-statement identified
by the statement-name specified in the DECLARE
CURSOR statement. If the statement has not been successfully prepared,
or is not a select-statement, the cursor
cannot be successfully opened.

The result table of the cursor is derived by evaluating the
SELECT statement. The evaluation uses the current values of any special
registers specified in the SELECT statement and the current values
of any variables specified in the SELECT statement or the USING clause
of the OPEN statement. The rows of the result table can be derived
during the execution of the OPEN statement and a temporary table can
be created to hold them; or they can be derived during the execution
of subsequent FETCH statements. In either case, the cursor is placed
in the open state and positioned before the first row of its result
table. If the table is empty the position of the cursor is effectively
“after the last row.”

USING
Introduces
a list of variables whose values are substituted for the parameter
markers (question marks) of a prepared statement. For an explanation
of parameter markers, see PREPARE.If a statement-name is specified in the DECLARE CURSOR
statement that includes parameter markers, USING must be used. If
the prepared statement does not include parameter markers, USING is
ignored.
If a select-statement is specified in the DECLARE CURSOR
statement, USING may be used to override the variable values. For
more information, see Variable
value override.

If the DECLARE CURSOR statement names a prepared statement that
includes parameter markers, you must use USING. If the prepared statement
does not include parameter markers, USING is ignored. variable,…
Identifies
host structures or variables that must be declared in the program
in accordance with the rules for declaring host structures and variables.
A reference to a host structure is replaced by a reference to each
of its variables. The resulting number of variables must be the same
as the number of parameter markers in the prepared statement. The nth
variable corresponds to the nth parameter marker in the prepared
statement.A global variable may only be used if the
current connection is a local connection (not a DRDA® connection).

USING SQL DESCRIPTOR SQL-descriptor-name
Identifies an SQL descriptor. LOCAL
Specifies the scope of the name of the descriptor to be local
to program invocation.
GLOBAL
Specifies the scope of the name of the descriptor to be global
to the SQL session.
SQL-descriptor-name
Names the SQL descriptor. The name must identify a descriptor
that already exists with the specified scope. See SET DESCRIPTOR for an explanation of the information
in the SQL descriptor.

USING DESCRIPTOR descriptor-name
Identifies an SQLDA that must
contain a valid description of input variables. Before the OPEN
statement is processed, the user must set the following fields in
the SQLDA. (The rules for REXX are different. For more information see Embedded
SQL Programming.)
SQLN to indicate the number of SQLVAR occurrences provided in
the SQLDA
SQLDABC to indicate the number of bytes of storage allocated for
the SQLDA
SQLD to indicate the number of variables used in the SQLDA when
processing the statement
SQLVAR occurrences to indicate the attributes of the variables

The SQLDA must have enough storage to contain all SQLVAR occurrences.
If LOBs or distinct types are present in the results, there must be
additional SQLVAR entries for each parameter. For more information
about the SQLDA, which includes a description of the SQLVAR and an
explanation on how to determine the number of SQLVAR occurrences,
see SQLDA (SQL descriptor area).
SQLD must be set
to a value greater than or equal to zero and less than or equal to
SQLN. It must be the same as the number of parameter markers in the
prepared statement. The nth variable described by the SQLDA
corresponds to the nth parameter marker in the prepared statement.

Note that because RPG/400® does not provide the facility for
setting pointers and the SQLDA uses pointers to locate the appropriate
variables, you will have to set these pointers outside your RPG/400 application.

NotesClosed
state of cursors: All cursors in a program are in the closed state
when:
The program is called: If CLOSQLCSR(*ENDPGM) is specified, all cursors are in the closed
state each time the program is called.
If CLOSQLCSR(*ENDSQL) is specified, all cursors are in the closed
state only the first time the program is called as long as one SQL
program remains on the call stack.
If CLOSQLCSR(*ENDJOB) is specified, all cursors are in the closed
state only the first time the program is called as long as the job
remains active.
If CLOSQLCSR(*ENDMOD) is specified, all cursors are in the closed
state each time the module is initiated.
If CLOSQLCSR(*ENDACTGRP) is specified, all cursors are in the
closed state only the first time the module in the program is initiated
in the activation group.

A program starts a new unit of work by executing a COMMIT statement
without a HOLD option. Cursors declared with the HOLD option are not
closed by a COMMIT statement without a HOLD option. A COMMIT HOLD
statement does not close cursors whether they are declared with a
HOLD option or not.
A program starts a new unit of work by executing a ROLLBACK statement
without a HOLD option. A ROLLBACK HOLD statement does not close cursors
whether they are declared with a HOLD option or not.
A CONNECT (Type 1) statement was executed.

A cursor can also be in the closed state because:
A CLOSE statement was executed.
A DISCONNECT statement disconnected the connection with which
the cursor was associated.
The connection with which the cursor was associated was in the
release-pending state and a successful COMMIT occurred.
A CONNECT (Type 1) statement was executed.

To retrieve rows from the
result table of a cursor, the FETCH statement must be executed when
the cursor is open. The only way to change the state of a cursor from
closed to open is to execute an OPEN statement.
Effect
of temporary tables: If the result table of a cursor is not read-only,
its rows are derived during the execution of subsequent FETCH statements.
The same method may be used for a read-only result table. However,
if a result table is read-only, DB2® for
i may choose to use
the temporary table method instead. With this method the entire result
table is inserted into a temporary table during the execution of the
OPEN statement. When a temporary table is used, the results of a program
can differ in several ways:
An error can occur during OPEN that would otherwise not occur
until some later FETCH statement.
The INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE statements that are executed while
the cursor is open cannot affect the result table.
Any NEXT VALUE expressions in the SELECT statement are evaluated
for every row of the result table during OPEN. Thus, sequence values
are generated, for every row of the result table during OPEN.
Any functions are evaluated for every row of the result table
during OPEN. Thus, any external actions and SQL statements that modify
SQL data within the functions are performed for every row of the result
table during OPEN.

Conversely, if a temporary table is not used, INSERT,
UPDATE, and DELETE statements executed while the cursor is open can
affect the result table, and any NEXT VALUE expressions and functions
in the SELECT statement are evaluated as each row is fetched. The
effect of such operations is not always predictable. For example,
if cursor CUR is positioned on a row of its result table defined as
SELECT * FROM T, and a row is inserted into T, the effect of that
insert on the result table is not predictable because its rows are
not ordered. A subsequent FETCH CUR might or might not retrieve the
new row of T.
Parameter
marker replacement: When the SELECT statement of the cursor is
evaluated, each parameter marker in the statement is effectively replaced
by its corresponding variable. The replacement of a parameter marker
is an assignment operation in which the source is the value of the
variable, and the target is a variable within the database manager.
For a typed parameter marker, the attributes of the target variable
are those specified by the CAST specification. For an untyped parameter
marker, the attributes of the target variable are determined according
to the context of the parameter marker. For the rules that affect
parameter markers, see Table 1.
Let V denote a variable that corresponds to parameter
marker P. The value of V is assigned to the target variable for P
in accordance with the rules for assigning a value to a column. Thus:
V must be compatible with the target.
If V is a number, the absolute value of its integral part must
not be greater than the maximum absolute value of the integral part
of the target.
If the attributes of V are not identical to the attributes of
the target, the value is converted to conform to the attributes of
the target.
If the target cannot contain nulls, the value of V must not be
null.

However, unlike the rules for assigning a value to a column:
If V is a string, the value will be truncated (without an error),
if its length is greater than the length attribute of the target.

When the SELECT statement of the cursor is evaluated,
the value used in place of P is the value of the target variable for
P. For example, if V is CHAR(6), and the target is CHAR(8), the value
used in place of P is the value of V padded with two blanks.
The USING clause is intended for a prepared SELECT statement
that contains parameter markers. However, it can also be used when
the SELECT statement of the cursor is part of the DECLARE CURSOR statement.
In this case the OPEN statement is executed as if each variable in
the SELECT statement were a parameter marker, except that the attributes
of the target variables are the same as the attributes of the variables
in the SELECT statement. The effect is to override the values of the
variables in the SELECT statement of the cursor with the values of
the variables specified in the USING clause.
Variable value override: The USING
clause is intended for a prepared SELECT statement that contains parameter
markers. However, it can also be used when the SELECT statement of
the cursor is part of the DECLARE CURSOR statement. In this case,
the OPEN statement is executed as if each variable in the SELECT statement
were a parameter marker, except that the attributes of the target
variables are the same as the attributes of the variables in the SELECT
statement. The effect is to override the values of the variables in
the SELECT statement of the cursor with the values of the variables
specified in the USING clause.
ExamplesExample 1: Write the embedded
statements in a COBOL program that will:
Define a cursor C1 that is to be used to retrieve all rows from
the DEPARTMENT table for departments that are administered by (ADMRDEPT)
department ‘A00'
Place the cursor C1 before the first row to be fetched.

EXEC SQL DECLARE C1 CURSOR FOR
SELECT DEPTNO, DEPTNAME, MGRNO FROM DEPARTMENT
WHERE ADMRDEPT = 'A00' END-EXEC.

EXEC SQL OPEN C1 END-EXEC.

Example 2: Code an OPEN statement to associate
a cursor DYN_CURSOR with a dynamically defined select-statement in
a C program. Assume each prepared select-statement always
defines two items in its select list with the first item having a
data type of integer and the second item having a data type of VARCHAR(64).
(The related host variable definitions, PREPARE statement, and DECLARE
CURSOR statement are also shown in the example below.)
EXEC SQL BEGIN DECLARE SECTION;
static short hv_int;
char hv_vchar64[64];
char stmt1_str[200];
EXEC SQL END DECLARE SECTION;

EXEC SQL PREPARE STMT1_NAME FROM :stmt1_str;

EXEC SQL DECLARE DYN_CURSOR CURSOR FOR STMT1_NAME;

EXEC SQL OPEN DYN_CURSOR USING :hv_int, :hv_vchar64;

Example 3: Code an OPEN statement as in example
3, but in this case the number and data types of the items in the
select statement are not known.
EXEC SQL BEGIN DECLARE SECTION;
char stmt1_str[200];
EXEC SQL END DECLARE SECTION;
EXEC SQL INCLUDE SQLDA;

EXEC SQL PREPARE STMT1_NAME FROM :stmt1_str;
EXEC SQL DECLARE DYN_CURSOR CURSOR FOR STMT1_NAME;

EXEC SQL OPEN DYN_CURSOR USING DESCRIPTOR :sqlda;

Parent topic: Statements