Verify Moves using BRM (VFYMOVBRM)

Verify Moves using BRM (VFYMOVBRM)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Verify Moves using BRM (VFYMOVBRM) command shows you the Verify Media Moves display. The Verify Media Moves display allows you to verify individual media volume movement, verify all volumes scheduled to move or cancel movement for individual or selected volumes. You can specify all systems or a selected system to verify.

The Volume Movement Report is produced when you run the VFYMOVBRM command. The report is written to printer file QP1AVMS.

To use this command, you must have the Backup Recovery and Media Services for IBM i licensed program installed.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
SYSNAME | System name | Character value, *ALL, *LCL | Optional

Top

System name (SYSNAME)

Specifies the system identifier for which you want to verify media movement.

*ALL
Include all media on all systems in the media selected for media movement.

*LCL
Specifies that the system is the local system. BRMS uses the default local location name, LCLLOCNAME and not the system name SYSNAME. In most cases, the systems have the same value specified in the LCLLOCNAME and in the SYSNAME. You can use the DSPNETA command to view the system network attributes.

location-name
Specify the name of the remote location associated with the system. The local system's network identifier, as seen by using the DSPNETA command, is used as the system's network identifier.

network-id.location-name
Specify the network identifier and the name of the remote location associated with the system. Specify these values using the format nnnnnnnn.cccccccc where nnnnnnnn is the network identifier and cccccccc is the remote location name.

Top

Examples for VFYMOVBRM

Example 1: Verifying Media Movement

VFYMOVBRM

This command takes you to the Verify Media Moves display. Media chosen for media movement for all systems in the network is displayed.

Top

Error messages for VFYMOVBRM

*ESCAPE Messages

BRM1917
Feature not installed.

BRM1921
Feature not licensed.

BRM4040
Access denied for user &1.

BRM40A2
BRMS product initialization required.

CPF9800
All CPF98xx messages could be signaled. xx is from 01 to FF.

Top