End Cluster Node (ENDCLUNOD)

End Cluster Node (ENDCLUNOD)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: Yes | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The End Cluster Node (ENDCLUNOD) command is used to end Cluster Resource Services on one or all the nodes in the membership list of an existing cluster. The status of each node that is ended is set to Inactive. In order to restart Cluster Resource Services on nodes that have been ended, the Start Cluster Node (STRCLUNOD) command is used.

When a node in the cluster is ended, it is not removed from the cluster membership list.

This command can be called on the node which is to be ended, or it can be called on any node in the cluster which has a status of Active. If this command is called when the cluster is partitioned, only nodes in the partition running the command will process the request.

The cluster resource group exit program on the node being ended will be called with an action code of End Node. The exit program on all other nodes in the recovery domain will be called with an action code of Failover. If all the nodes in the cluster are being ended, cluster resource group exit programs will not be called with an indication to failover.

The recovery domain of cluster resource groups on the node that had ended will indicate a node status of Active even though the node is inactive. For all the other nodes in the recovery domain, the status of the node will be Inactive. If the node being ended is the primary node for an active device cluster resource group, ownership of the hardware associated with the cluster resource group will be moved to a backup node. If the cluster resource group is not active, there are no backup nodes, or all backup nodes are either inactive or in a different cluster partition, the ownership of the hardware is left with the node being ended.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority on all nodes in the cluster to run this command.

- This command cannot be called from a cluster resource group exit program.

- The node being ended must be active.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
NODE | Node identifier | Name, *ALL | Required, Positional 1
OPTION | Option | *IMMED, *CNTRLD | Optional
CLUSTER | Cluster | Name, * | Optional

Top

Node identifier (NODE)

Specifies the node identifier(s) to be ended.

This is a required parameter.

*ALL
End all active nodes in the cluster.

name
Specify the name of the node to be ended.

Top

Option (OPTION)

Specifies the method to end the node.

*IMMED
Immediate. The request to end Cluster Resource Services on the node will be processed immediately.

*CNTRLD
Controlled. Pending cluster resource group actions will complete before the request to end Cluster Resource Services is processed.

Top

Cluster (CLUSTER)

Specifies the name of the cluster.

*
The cluster that has been configured on this system is used.

name
Specify the name of the cluster.

Top

Examples for ENDCLUNOD

ENDCLUNOD NODE(NODE01) OPTION(*IMMED)

This command ends Cluster Resource Services on node NODE01. The request is processed immediately without waiting for any pending cluster resource group actions to complete.

Top

Error messages for ENDCLUNOD

*ESCAPE Messages

HAE0010
Cluster node &1 in cluster &2 not ended.

Top