Monitoring for messages in a CL program or procedure

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Messages

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages

Monitoring for messages in a CL program or procedure
Messages that can be monitored are *ESCAPE, *STATUS, and *NOTIFY
messages that are issued by each CL command used in the program or procedure.
Note: By using the code examples, you agree to the terms of the Code license and disclaimer information.
Each IBM-supplied command identifies
in its help documentation which exception messages it generates. You can use
this information to determine which messages you want to monitor in your program
or procedure.
Exception messages include escape, notify, and status
messages that are sent to the call message queue of your CL procedure or program
by the commands in your procedure or program or by commands in another procedure
or program. Diagnostic messages cannot be monitored.
Using the Monitor
Message (MONMSG) command, you can monitor for one or more messages
sent to the call message queue for the conditions specified in the command.
You can then use the MONMSG command to specify that if
the condition exists, the CL command specified on the MONMSG command is run.
The logic involved with the MONMSG command is as follows:
Escape
Messages: Escape messages are sent to tell your procedure or program of
an error condition that forced the sender to end. By monitoring for escape
messages, you can take corrective actions or clean up and end your procedure
or program.
Status or Notify Messages: Status and notify messages
are sent to tell your procedure or program of an abnormal condition that is
not serious enough for the sender to end. By monitoring for status or notify
messages, your procedure or program can detect this condition and not allow
the function to continue.
You can monitor for messages using two levels
of MONMSG commands:
Procedure level: You can monitor for an escape, notify, or status message
sent by any command in your program or procedure by specifying the MONMSG command
immediately following the last declare command in your CL procedure or program.
This is called a procedure-level MONMSG command. You can
use as many as 100 procedure-level MONMSG commands in a procedure or original
program model (OPM) program. (A CL procedure or OPM program can contain a
total of 1000 MONMSG commands.) This lets you handle the same escape message
in the same way for all commands. The EXEC parameter is optional, and only
the GOTO command can be specified on this EXEC parameter.
Specific command level: You can monitor for an escape, notify, or status
message sent by a specific command in your procedure or program by specifying
the MONMSG command immediately following the command. This is called a command
level MONMSG command. You can use as many as 100 command-level MONMSG commands
for a single command. This lets you handle different escape messages in different
ways.

To monitor for escape, status, or notify messages, you must specify,
on the MONMSG command, generic message identifiers for the messages in one
of the following ways:
pppmmnn Monitors for a specific message. For example,
MCH1211 is the message identifier of the zero divide escape message.

pppmm00 Monitors for any message with a generic message
identifier that begins with a specific licensed program (ppp)
and the digits specified by mm. For example, CPF5100 indicates that all notify,
status, and escape messages beginning with CPF51 are monitored.

ppp0000 Monitors for every message with a generic
message identifier that begins with a specific licensed program (ppp).
For example, CPF0000 indicates that all notify, status, and
escape messages beginning with CPF are monitored. Note: Do
not use MONMSG CPF0000 when doing system function, such as
install or saving or restoring your entire system, since you may lose important
information.

CPF9999 Monitors for function check messages. If an error message
is not monitored, it becomes a CPF9999 (function check).

Note: Generally, when monitoring, your monitor also gets control when
notify and status messages are sent.
In addition to monitoring for
escape messages by message identifier, you can compare a character string,
which you specify on the MONMSG command, to message data
sent in the message. For example, the following command monitors for an escape
message (CPF5101) for the file MYFILE. The name of the file is specified as
message data when the CPF5101 message is sent by a program.
MONMSG MSGID(CPF5101) CMPDTA(MYFILE) EXEC(GOTO EOJ)
The compare data can be as long as 28 characters, and the comparison
starts with the first character of the first field of the message data. If
the compare data matches the message data, the action specified on the EXEC
parameter is run.
The EXEC parameter on the MONMSG command
specifies how an escape message is to be handled. Any command except PGM,
ENDPGM, IF, ELSE, DCL, DCLF, ENDDO, and MONMSG can be specified on the EXEC
parameter. You can specify a DO command on the EXEC parameter, and the commands
in the do group are run. When the command or do group (on the EXEC parameter)
has been run, control returns to the command in your procedure or program
that is after the command that sent the escape message. However, if you specify
a GOTO or RETURN command, control does not return. If you do not specify
the EXEC parameter, the escape message is ignored and your program or procedure
continues.
The following shows an example of a Change Variable
(CHGVAR) command being monitored for a zero divide escape message,
message identifier MCH1211:
CHGVAR VAR(&A) VALUE(&A / &B)
MONMSG MSGID(MCH1211) EXEC(CHGVAR VAR(&A) VALUE(1))
The value of the variable &A is changed to the value of &A
divided by &B. If &B equals 0, the divide operation cannot be done
and the zero divide escape message is sent to the procedure. When this happens,
the value of &A is changed to 1 (as specified on the EXEC parameter).
You may also test &B for zero, and only perform the division if it is
not zero. This is more efficient than attempting the operation and monitoring
for the escape message.
In the following example, the procedure monitors
for the escape message CPF9801 (object not found message) on the Check
Object (CHKOBJ) command:
PGM
CHKOBJ LIB1/PGMA *PGM
MONMSG MSGID(CPF9801) EXEC(GOTO NOTFOUND)
CALL LIB1/PGMA
RETURN
NOTFOUND: CALL FIX001 /* PGMA Not Found Routine */
ENDPGM
The following CL procedure contains two Call (CALL) commands
and a procedure-level MONMSG command for CPF0001. This escape message occurs
if a Call (CALL) command cannot be completed successfully.
If either CALL command fails, the procedure sends the completion message
and ends.
PGM
MONMSG MSGID(CPF0001) EXEC(GOTO ERROR)
CALL PROGA
CALL PROGB
RETURN
ERROR: SNDPGMMSG MSG('A CALL command failed') MSGTYPE(*COMP)
ENDPGM
If the EXEC parameter is not coded on a procedure-level
MONMSG command, any escape message that is handled by the MONMSG command is
ignored. If the escape message occurs on any command except the condition
of an IF command, the procedure continues processing with the command that
would have been run next if the escape message had not occurred. If the escape
message occurs on the condition of an IF command, the procedure continues
processing as if the condition on the IF command were false. The following
example illustrates what happens if an escape message occurs at different
points in the procedure:
PGM
DCL &A TYPE(*DEC) LEN(5 0)
DCL &B TYPE(*DEC) LEN(5 0)
MONMSG MSGID(CPF0001 MCH1211)
CALL PGMA PARM(&A &B)
IF (&A/&B *EQ 5) THEN(CALL PGMB)
ELSE CALL PGMC
CALL PGMD
ENDPGM
Depending on where an escape message occurs, the following
situations happen:
If CPF0001 occurs on the call to PGMA, the procedure resumes processing
on the IF command.
If MCH1211 (divide by 0) occurs on the IF command, the IF condition is
considered false, and the procedure resumes processing with the call to PGMC.
If CPF0001 occurs on the call to PGMB or PGMC, the procedure resumes processing
with the call to PGMD.
If CPF0001 occurs on the call to PGMD, the procedure resumes processing
with the ENDPGM command, which causes a return to the calling procedure.

You can also monitor for the same escape message to be sent by a specific
command in your procedure or program and by another command. This requires
two MONMSG commands. One MONMSG command
follows the command that needs special handling for the escape message; for
that command, this MONMSG command is used when the escape
message is sent. The other MONMSG command follows the
last declare command so that for all other commands, this MONMSG command
is used.
MONMSG commands apply only to the CL procedure
or OPM program in which they are coded. MONMSG commands from one procedure
do not apply to another procedure even though both are part of the same program.
Online help and documentation for each command contains a list of the escape,
notify, and status messages that are issued for the command. You should also
keep a list of all messages that you have defined.
Note: The previous paragraph
is not true for ILE procedures because of the way messages percolate. The
system requires MONMSG to handle any escape message that is sent to a procedure.
Otherwise, the message percolates up the call stack until it finds a procedure
that has a MONMSG to handle it or hits a control boundary.

Watching for messages
The system provides a watch-for-event function that allows
you to watch for messages.
CL handling for unmonitored messages
The system provides default monitoring and handling of any messages
you do not monitor.
Monitoring for notify messages
You can monitor for notify messages that are sent
to the call message queue of your CL procedure or program by the commands
in your procedure or program or by the programs and procedures it calls.
Monitoring for status messages
You can monitor for status messages that are sent by the commands
in your CL procedure or by the programs and procedures it calls.
Preventing the display of status messages
You cannot prevent commands from sending status messages, but you
can prevent the status messages from being displayed at the bottom of the
screen.

Parent topic: Messages

Related concepts
Escape and notify messages

Related tasks
Assigning a message identifier