What's New in V3R6/V3R2?

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > What's New > What's New

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > What's New

What's New in V3R6/V3R2?

The major enhancement to RPG IV since V3R1 is the ability to
code a module with more than one procedure. What does this mean? In
a nutshell, it means that you can code an module with one or more
prototyped procedures, where the procedures can have return values
and run without the use of the RPG cycle.

Writing a module with multiple procedures enhances the kind of
applications you can create. Any application consists of a series
of logical units that are conceived to accomplish a particular task.
In order to develop applications with the greatest flexibility, it
is important that each logical unit be as independent as possible.
Independent units are:

Easier to write from the point of view of doing a specific task.

Less likely to change any data objects other than the ones it
is designed to change.

Easier to debug because the logic and data items are more localized.

Maintained more readily since it is easier to isolate the part
of the application that needs changing.

The main benefit of coding a module with multiple procedures is
greater control and better efficiency in coding a modular application.
This benefit is realized in several ways. You can now:

Call procedures and programs by using the same call operation
and syntax.

Define a prototype to provide a check at compile time of the call
interface.

Pass parameters by value or by reference.

Define a procedure that will return a value and call the procedure
within an expression.

Limit access to data items by defining local definitions of variables.

Code a module that does not make use of the cycle.

Call a procedure recursively.

The run-time behavior of the main procedure in a module is the
same as that of a V3R1 procedure. The run-time behavior of any subsequent
procedures differs somewhat from a V3R1 program, most notably in the
areas of procedure end and exception handling. These differences arise
because there is no cycle code that is generated for these procedures.

Other enhancements have been made to for this release as well.
These include:

Support for two new integer data types: signed integer (I), and
unsigned integer (U)
The use of the integer data types provides
you with a greater range of values than the binary data type. Integer
data types can also improve performance of integer computations.

*CYMD support for the MOVE, MOVEL, and TEST operations
You
can now use the *CYMD date format in certain operations to work with
system values that are already in this data format.

Ability to copyright your programs and modules by using the COPYRIGHT
keyword on the control specification
The copyright information
that is specified using this keyword becomes part of the DSPMOD, DSPPGM,
or DSPSRVPGM information.

User control of record blocking using keyword BLOCK
You can
request record blocking of DISK or SEQ files to be done even when
SETLL, SETGT, or CHAIN operations are used on the file. You can also
request that blocking not be done. Use of blocking in these cases
may significantly improve runtime performance.

Improved PREFIX capability
Changes to the PREFIX keyword for
either file-description and definition specifications allow you to
replace characters in the existing field name with the prefix string.

Status codes for trigger program errors
Two status codes 1223
and 1224 have been added to indicate trigger program errors.

The following tables summarize the changed and new language elements,
based on the part of the language affected.

Table 1. Changed Language Elements Since V3R1.

Language Unit

Element

Description

File description specification keywords

PREFIX(prefix_string {:nbr_of_char_
replaced})

Allows prefixing of string to a field name or a partial rename
of the field name

Definition specification keywords

CONST{(constant)}

Specifies the value of a named constant, or indicates that
a prototyped parameter that is passed by reference has a constant
value

 

PREFIX(prefix_string
{:nbr_of_char_ replaced})

Allows prefixing of string to a field name or a partial rename
of the field name

Operation codes

RETURN

Returns control to the caller, and returns a value, if specified

Table 2. New Language Elements Since V3R1

Language Unit

New

Description

Control specification keywords

COPYRIGHT('copyright string')

Allows you to associate copyright information with modules
and programs

 

EXTBININT{(*NO | *YES)}

Specifies that binary fields in externally-described files
be assigned an integer format during program processing

 

NOMAIN

Indicates that the module has only subprocedures

File description specification keywords

BLOCK(*YES |*NO)

Allows you to control whether record blocking occurs (assuming
other conditions are met)

Definition specification keywords

ALIGN

Specifies whether integer or unsigned fields should be aligned

 

EXTPGM(name)

Indicates the external name of the prototyped program

 

EXTPROC(name)

Indicates the external name of the prototyped procedure

 

OPDESC

Indicates whether operational descriptors are to be passed
for the prototyped bound call

 

OPTIONS(*NOPASS *OMIT *VARSIZE)

Specifies various options for prototyped parameters

 

STATIC

Specifies that the local variable is to use static storage

 

VALUE

Specifies that the prototyped parameter is to be passed by
value

Built-in functions

%PARMS

Returns the number of parameters passed on a call

Operation codes

CALLP

Calls a prototyped program or procedure

Specification type

Procedure specification

Signals the beginning and end of a subprocedure definition

Definition type

PR

Signals the beginning of a prototype definition

 

PI

Signals the beginning of a procedure interface definition

 

blank in positions 24-25

Defines a prototyped parameter

Parent topic: What's New