Add Media to BRM (ADDMEDBRM)

Add Media to BRM (ADDMEDBRM)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Add Media to BRM (ADDMEDBRM) command adds a media volume to the BRMS media inventory. The volume can be a volume from another media inventory that contains active data, the volume can be a volume from some other outside source, or a new volume that you want to initialize. Once added, BRMS tracks the volume's characteristics, location, use and content.

When you add the volume, you must specify the media class of the volume. You can also specify how you want the volume to move, where the volume is located, its container (if any) and other miscellaneous attributes.

If the numbering scheme of the volumes that you are adding is consecutive, the ADDMEDBRM command will automatically add the volumes without having to add the volumes one at a time.

Virtual media and devices can be used with this command. The following restrictions apply to the use of virtual media and virtual devices.

- The Device (DEV) parameter is limited on only one device or *MEDCLS special value for serial operations.

- Execute authority is required to the Load or Unload Image Catalog (LODIMGCLG) command.

- *CHANGE authority is required to the image catalogs.

- Execute (*X) authority is required to each directory in the image catalog path name.

- Read, write, execute (*RWX) authority is required to each image file in the parent directory that will be loaded or mounted.

- *USE authority is required to the virtual devices using the image catalogs.

To use this command, you must have the Backup Recovery and Media Services for IBM i licensed program installed.

Restrictions:

- The operating system uses certain volume identifiers for special purposes. You should avoid using these volume identifiers in your volume labeling. Volume identifiers that you should avoid are:

TAPxxx
NLTxxx
BLKxxx
CLNxxx
ERRxxx
SLTxxx
IMPxxx

- To add a virtual volume, you must specify the name of an existing image catalog on the Image catalog (IMGCLG) parameter, These additional restrictions apply when adding virtual media:

The name specified for the Volume identifier (VOL) parameter must exist as a volume name in the image catalog entries.

The density of the virtual volume (image catalog entry) must be the same as the density of the media class.

You must specify 1 for Number to add (VOLCNT). Virtual volumes can only be added individually.

You must specify *LCL or the current system name for System (SYSNAME). Virtual media resides in storage on the current system.

Cleaning and volume statistic are not maintained for virtual media.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
VOL | Volume identifier | Character value | Required, Positional 1
MEDCLS | Media class | Name | Required, Positional 2
VOLCNT | Number to add | 1-999, 1 | Optional
INZ | Initialize media | *NO, *YES | Optional
EXPDATE | Expiration date | Character value, *NONE, *PERM | Optional
MOVDATE | Last moved date | Character value, *NONE | Optional
MOVPCY | Move policy | Name, *NONE | Optional
CRTDATE | Creation date | Date, *CURRENT | Optional
SLOT | Slot number | 1-999999, *NEXT, *NONE | Optional
SYSNAME | System | Name, *LCL | Optional
TEXT | Text | Character value, *NONE | Optional
IMGCLG | Image catalog | Name, *NONE | Optional
DEV | Device | Name | Optional
NEWOWNID | New owner identifier | Character value, *BLANK | Optional
CHECK | Check for active files | *YES, *FIRST, *NO | Optional
CODE | Code | *EBCDIC, *ASCII | Optional
ENDOPT | End of media option | *REWIND, *UNLOAD | Optional
CLEAR | Clear | *NO, *YES | Optional
NXTVOLMSG | Next volume message | *YES, *NO | Optional
DLY | Volume mount delay | 1-900, *DEV, *IMMED | Optional
LOC | Location | Name, *HOME | Optional
CNR | Container ID | Name, *NONE | Optional
USECNT | Media uses | Decimal number, 0 | Optional
READERR | Read errors | Decimal number, 0 | Optional
WRTERR | Write errors | Decimal number, 0 | Optional
BYTEREAD | Bytes read | Decimal number, 0 | Optional
BYTEWRT | Bytes written | Decimal number, 0 | Optional
CURBYTES | Current bytes written | Decimal number, 0 | Optional
MAXBYTES | Maximum bytes written | Decimal number, 0 | Optional
LASTCLN | Last clean date | Date, *NONE | Optional
USECLN | Uses since cleaning | Decimal number, 0 | Optional

Top

Volume identifier (VOL)

Specifies the identifier of the volume being added to the BRMS media inventory. If the volume is being added to a media class using a virtual density, the volume-identifier must match the Volume name of the image catalog entry.

For volumes that specify a Media class (MEDCLS) parameter using an optical format, the volume identifier is a maximum of thirty-two characters in length. BRMS media inventory requires a six character volume serial. BRMS will use the Volume prefix specified on the System Policy to generate a unique six character name for BRMS to use. The volume identifier specified on the Volume identifier (VOL) parameter is the name that user applications will use to refer to the volume, but BRMS will use the six character volume serial that was generated by BRMS.

This is a required parameter.

volume-identifier
Specify the name of the volume being added to the media inventory.
For volumes that specify a Media class (MEDCLS) parameter using a tape density, the volume identifier is a maximum of six characters in length. The identifier must contain only alphanumeric characters (A through Z and 0 through 9), and cannot contain blanks.

For volumes that specify a Media class (MEDCLS) parameter using an optical format, the volume identifier is a maximum of thirty-two characters in length. The identifier must contain only alphabetic characters (A through Z), numeric characters (0 through 9), hyphen (-), underscore (_), or a period (.). The first character must be alphabetic or numeric and cannot contain blanks.

Top

Media class (MEDCLS)

Specifies the user-defined name of a media class for the volume you are adding. Media classes can be reviewed in the Work with Media Classes display.

This is a required parameter.

Top

Number to add (VOLCNT)

Specifies the number of volumes to add during this session. The value specified in the Volume identifier (VOL) parameter is increased by 1 for each volume added until the end of the count is reached. If the new volume identifier cannot be increased because of the way a volume is named, such as TAPEB9, an error message is sent. Volume serial TAPEB9 is not in the correct format for adding multiple media because there are not enough digits at the end of the volume to handle an add count without extending the entered length.

Note: You can add a maximum of 999 volumes at a time, even though the field can hold up to 31 digits.

1
Adds a single volume.

number-to-add
Specify the number of volumes to add. The maximum number of volumes that you can add at a time is 999.
For volumes that specify a Media class (MEDCLS) parameter using a tape density, specifying a "5" would add 5 volumes, each volume being increased by 1, such as T00001, T00002, T00003 and so on. The first volume (T00001 in the above example) is the volume specified in the Volume identifier (VOL) parameter.

For volumes that specify a Media class (MEDCLS) parameter using an optical format, specifying a "5" with a first volume specified in the Volume identifier (VOL) parameter would add 5 volumes. When adding these volumes, the Volume prefix specified on the System Policy (M for this example) will be used to create the volume serial associated with each volume identifier. Each volume serial and volume identifier will be increased by one, resulting in a volume serials of M00001, M00002, M00003 and so on, with volume identifiers of VOL00001, VOL00002, VOL00003 and so on.

Top

Initialize media (INZ)

Specifies whether the volumes that you are adding are to be initialized.

*NO
The volume that you are adding is not to be initialized. This is used if the volume has been initialized outside of BRMS and contains active data. You can specify the expiration date for this volume in the Expiration date (EXPDATE) parameter.

*YES
The volume is to be initialized with the ADDMEDBRM command and is to be added to the BRMS media inventory. The date in the Expiration date (EXPDATE) parameter is set to *NONE (all zeros).
If you specify *YES for the Initialize media (INZ) parameter, you must specify the Device (DEV) parameter. You must specify a device of category *VRTTAP if the media class uses a virtual density (*VRT32K *VRT64K *VRT240K *VRT256K). You must specify a device of category *VRTOPT if the media class uses a virtual density (*VRTUDF *VRTHPOFS).

Top

Expiration date (EXPDATE)

Specifies the expiration date of the media volume that is added to the media inventory. If a date is specified, the file is protected and cannot be overwritten until the expiration date.

*NONE
The media is expired media and can be used in backup or archive processing. A value of *NONE means that the volume is a new volume that has been added to the media inventory or that the volume has been reinitialized.

*PERM
The media has a permanent retention and cannot be used in backup or archive processing.

expiration-date
Specify the date when protection for the media ends.

Top

Last moved date (MOVDATE)

Specifies the last date this volume was moved prior to being added to the media inventory.

*NONE
You are not assigning a last moved date for this volume.

move-date
Specify the date that this volume was last moved.

Top

Move policy (MOVPCY)

Specifies the user-defined name of a move policy that you want to use for this volume.

*NONE
You are not assigning this volume a move policy.

move-policy-name
Specify the user-defined name of the move policy that you are assigning to this media volume.

Top

Creation date (CRTDATE)

Specifies the date that the first file on this volume was written.

*CURRENT
You are assigning the current date as the creation date for this volume.

creation-date
Specify the date that this volume had data written on it. The date must be specified in job date format.

Top

Slot number (SLOT)

Specifies the slot number for the volume that you have selected to add.

Note: This parameter is ignored if the Device (DEVICE) parameter specified is an optical device.

*NEXT
Use the next available slot number if the specified location allows media slotting.

*NONE
No slot is assigned to the volume that you are adding.

slot-number
Specify the slot number that you are assigning to this volume. Slot numbers can be any number from 1 to 999999.

Top

System (SYSNAME)

Specifies the system identifier for the volume that you are adding.

*LCL
Specifies that the system is the local system. BRMS uses the default local location name, LCLLOCNAME and not the system name SYSNAME. In most cases, the systems have the same value specified in the LCLLOCNAME and in the SYSNAME. You can use the DSPNETA command to view the system network attributes.

location-name
Specify the name of the remote location associated with the system. The local system's network identifier, as seen by using the DSPNETA command, is used as the system's network identifier.

network-id.location-name
Specify the network identifier and the name of the remote location associated with the system. Specify these values using the format nnnnnnnn.cccccccc where nnnnnnnn is the network identifier and cccccccc is the remote location name.

Top

Text (TEXT)

Specifies text to describe the media that you are adding.

*NONE
There is no text associated with the volume that you are adding.

text
Specify the text for the volume that you are adding.

Top

Image catalog (IMGCLG)

Specifies the name of the image catalog for a volume being added which is a virtual volume. The image catalog and image catalog entry for the volume being added must exist before you can add and initialize the virtual volumes.

Note: Use GO CMDCLG and GO CMDCLGE to view the menus for commands used to manage image catalogs and image catalog entries.

*NONE
Specifies this is not a virtual volume.

image-catalog
Specifies the name of the image catalog which contains the image catalog entry for a virtual volume.

Top

Device (DEV)

Specifies the name of the device which is used to initialize the volume. This is a required parameter when *YES is specified in the Initialize media (INZ) parameter. The device you specify must be defined in the BRMS device table, as shown on the WRKDEVBRM display and the device must be compatible with the specified Media class (MEDCLS) parameter.

Top

New owner identifier (NEWOWNID)

Specifies the volume owner's identifier to write in the volume label of the volume being written.

*BLANK
The owner identification field is set to blanks.

new-owner-identifier
Specify no more than 14 characters to identify the owner of the volume. If fewer than 14 characters are specified, the field is left-justified and is filled with blanks on the right.

Top

Check for active files (CHECK)

Specifies whether a labeled volume should be checked for active data files before it is initialized for use. If an unlabeled volume is placed in the specified device, this parameter is ignored.

*YES
For tape volumes, all data file labels on the volume are checked. If any active files are found, the operation is ended and an error message is sent. For optical volumes, an error is sent if the volume is initialized.

*FIRST
Only the first data file label on the volume is checked. If there are no data files on the volume or if the first data file has expired, the volume is initialized for use without checking for any other files on the volume. If the first data file has not expired, the operation is ended and an error message is sent.

Note: For optical devices, specifying *FIRST is the same as specifying *YES.

*NO
Volume initialization continues with no checking for active files. To initialize a new or empty volume, *NO must be specified and *MOUNTED must be specified on the Volume identifier (VOL) parameter.

Top

Code (CODE)

Specifies the character code in which the volume label is written. All data that is not save/restore data written after the label must be in the same code; codes cannot be intermixed on a volume that is not a save/restore volume.

Note: For optical devices this parameter is ignored.

*EBCDIC
The volume label is written in EBCDIC and is an IBM standard label; all additional data must also be written in EBCDIC.

*ASCII
The volume label is written in ASCII and is an American National Standard Institute standard label; all additional data must also be written in ASCII.

Top

End of media option (ENDOPT)

Specifies whether the volume is only rewound, or rewound and unloaded after it has been initialized for use.

Note: For optical devices, *UNLOAD is the only special value supported, other special values will be ignored.

*REWIND
The volume is rewound after it has been initialized for use.

*UNLOAD
The volume is rewound and unloaded. Some optical devices will eject the volume after the operation ends.

Top

Clear (CLEAR)

Specifies whether all labels and data are to be deleted from the volume when it is initialized for use. If the volume must be cleared of all data, it is deleted from the location of the volume label or volume marks to the end of the volume marker.

For an optical device this parameter only applies when the volume media type is *DVD-RAM.

Note: If the volume media type is *WORM the volume is never cleared regardless of the parameter setting. If the volume media type is *ERASE the volume is always cleared regardless of the parameter setting.

*NO
Existing data is not deleted. Even though the existing data is not deleted, the data on the volume is not usable after the volume has been initialized for use.

*YES
After the beginning of the volume has been initialized for use, the remaining data on the volume is deleted.

Note: For optical devices, this option may take several hours to complete, depending on the media capacity.

Top

Next volume message (NXTVOLMSG)

Specifies whether you want BRMS to notify you through messages to place another volume on a device.

Note: This parameter is ignored if the Device (DEVICE) parameter specified is an optical device.

*YES
BRMS will send you messages when the device is ready to accept another volume.

*NO
You do not want BRMS to send you messages as soon as the device is ready to accept another volume.

Top

Media mount delay (DLY)

Specifies how long you want the device to delay before it begins processing the next volume on a device.

Note: This parameter is ignored if the Device (DEVICE) parameter specified is an optical device.

*DEV
The device should begin processing the next volume based on the device default.

*IMMED
The device should begin processing the next volume as soon as it finishes the previous volume.

number-of-seconds
Specify the number of seconds that the device should wait before is begins processing the next volume. The number of seconds can range from 1 to 900.

Top

Storage location (LOC)

Specifies the name of the storage location for the volume you are adding. Storage locations are used to hold media and containers. Storage locations can be local, that is, your computer room, or volume inventory or offsite, like a vault or vaulting service. Storage location names are user-defined.

Storage locations are set up in the Work with Storage Locations display. The choices on the command reflect the locations that you have set up.

*HOME
The volume is assigned to a location called *HOME.

location-name
Specify the name of the storage location for this volume.

Top

Container ID (CNR)

Specifies the name of a container to which you want to add this volume. The container must be of a class that can accommodate this type of media.

*NONE
You are not storing this volume in a container.

container-ID-name
Specify the name of the container in which you are storing this volume.

Top

Media uses (USECNT)

Specifies the number of times that a media volume has been read from or written to. When the volume exceeds the usage threshold value for media in its media class, it should be taken out of service and replaced with a newer volume. The usage threshold value can be reviewed in the Work with Media Classes display. Media uses is expressed in number of uses.

0
Initializes the media uses as zero.

media-uses
Specify a number of media uses.

Top

Read errors (READERR)

Specifies the number of read errors that have been recorded for each media volume in the media inventory. When the number of read errors exceeds the value specified in the read error threshold for a volume's media class, the volume should be replaced with a new volume. The read error threshold value can be reviewed in the Work with Media Classes display. Read errors are expressed in kilobytes per read error.

The following guidelines can be used to determine the Read error threshold value for your media class. If a volume or cartridge exceeds the criteria, copy the contents to a new volume and discard the old volume.

3570
One temporary read error per 1000 megabytes read.

3580
One temporary read error per 10 gigabytes read.

3590
One temporary read error per 10 gigabytes read.

3592
One temporary read error per 10 gigabytes read.

3480 and 3490
One temporary read error per 50,000,000 KB read.

1/4-Inch cartridge (6341, 6346, 6366 and 9346 and 6342 and 6347 at 10,000 bpi density)
One temporary read error per 12,500 KB read.

1/4-Inch Cartridge (6342 and 6347 at 16,000 bpi density)
One temporary read error per 4,170 read.

8-Millimeter cartridges (7208)
One temporary read error per 100 KB read.

1/2-inch volume reel (9347)
One temporary read error per 50,000 KB read.

1/2-inch tape reel (9348 and 2440)
One temporary read error per 100,000 KB read.

1/2-inch tape reel (3422)
One temporary read error per 144,000 KB read.
If all volumes used in a single drive exceed these criteria, the read/write heads are probably dirty. You should also discard tape reels and tape cartridges with a hard read error.

0
Initializes the read errors as zero.

read-errors
Specify a number of read errors.

Top

Write errors (WRTERR)

Specifies the number of write errors that have been recorded for each media volume in the media inventory. When the number of write errors exceeds the value specified in the write error threshold for a volume's media class, the volume should be replaced with a new volume. The write error threshold value can be reviewed in the Work with Media Classes display. Write errors are expressed in kilobytes per write error.

The following guidelines can be used to determine the Write error threshold value for your media class. If a volume or cartridge exceeds the criteria, copy the contents to a new volume and discard the old volume.

3570
One temporary write error per 250 GB written.

3580
One temporary write error per 10 GB written.

3590
One temporary write error per 1 GB written.

3592
One temporary write error per 10 GB written.

3480 and 3490
One temporary write error per 12,500 KB written.

1/4-Inch Cartridge (6341, 6346, 6366 and 9346 and 6342 and 6347 at 10,000 bpi density)
One temporary write error per 1,250 KB written.

1/4-Inch Cartridge (6342 and 6347 at 16,000 bpi density)
One temporary write error per 890 KB written.

8-Millimeter cartridges (7208)
One temporary write error per 50 KB written.

1/2-inch tape reel (9347)
One temporary write error per 4,500 KB written.

1/2-inch tape reel (9348 and 2440)
One temporary write error per 5,000 KB written for 1600 bpi. One temporary write error per 8,500 KB written for 6250 bpi.

1/2-inch tape reel (3422)
One temporary write error per 8,500 KB written.
If all tapes used in a single drive exceed these criteria, the read/write heads are probably dirty. You should also discard volumes and tape cartridges with a hard write error.

0
Initializes the write errors as zero.

write-errors
Specify a number of write errors.

Top

Millions of bytes read (BYTEREAD)

Specifies the number of bytes read (in millions of bytes) from the volume since its creation date.

0
Initializes the bytes read as zero.

bytes-read
Specify a number of bytes read (in millions of bytes).

Top

Millions of bytes written (BYTEWRT)

Specifies the number of bytes written (in millions of bytes) to the volume since its creation date.

0
Initializes the bytes written as zero.

bytes-written
Specify a number of bytes written (in millions of bytes).

Top

Current millions of bytes written (CURBYTES)

Specifies the number of bytes currently written (in millions of bytes) on the media volume.

0
Initializes the current bytes written as zero.

current-bytes-written
Specify a number of current bytes written (in millions of bytes).

Top

Maximum millions of bytes written (MAXBYTES)

Specifies the maximum number of bytes (in millions of bytes) that can be written to this volume.

0
Initializes the maximum bytes written as zero.

maximum-bytes-written
Specify a maximum number of bytes written (in millions of bytes).

Top

Last clean date (LASTCLN)

Specifies the last date that the media volume was cleaned.

*NONE
No date is specified for the last cleaning date.

last-cleaning-date
Specify the last date that the volume was cleaned.

Top

Uses since cleaning (USECLN)

Specifies the number of uses since the last cleaning. When this number equals or exceeds the uses before cleaning parameter for this media class, the volume should be cleaned before using it further. The uses before cleaning value can be reviewed in the Work with Media Classes display.

0
Initializes the uses since cleaning as zero.

uses-since-cleaning
Specify a number of uses since cleaning.

Top

Examples for ADDMEDBRM

Example 1: Adding a Volume to BRMS

ADDMEDBRM VOL(T00001) MEDCLS(QIC1000)

This command adds volumes to the BRMS media inventory. In this example, volume T00001 is assigned a media class of QIC1000 and is added to the BRMS media inventory. The volume is not initialized and is added as expired.

Example 2: Adding and Initializing a Volume to BRMS

ADDMEDBRM VOL(T00002) MEDCLS(QIC1000)
INZ(*YES) DEV(TAP01)

This command adds the volume T00002 to the BRMS media inventory with a media class of QIC1000. The volume is initialized using device TAP01.

Example 3: Adding a Virtual Volume to BRMS

ADDMEDBRM VOL(VRT001) MEDCLS(VRT256K)
INZ(*YES) DEV(VRTTAP) IMGCLG(VRTIMGCLG)

This command adds the virtual volume VRT001 to the BRMS media inventory with a media class of VRT256K. The volume is initialized using device VRTTAP. Image catalog VRTIMGCLG contains the image catalog entry for VRT001.

Example 4: Adding and Initializing an Optical Volume to BRMS

ADDMEDBRM VOL(VOL0000001) MEDCLS(OPTUDF)
INZ(*YES) DEV(OPT01)

For this example the Volume prefix specified on the System Policy is set to M. This command adds a volume with volume serial M000001 and a volume identifier VOL0000001 to the BRMS media inventory with a media class of OPTUDF. The volume is initialized as VOL0000001 using device OPT01.

Example 5: Adding and Initializing Multiple Optical Volumes to BRMS

ADDMEDBRM VOL(VOLUMEIDENTIFIER0000001) MEDCLS(OPTUDF)
VOLCNT(5) INZ(*YES) DEV(OPT01)

For this example the Volume prefix specified on the System Policy is set to V. This command adds volumes with volume serials V00001, V00002, V00003, V00004, and V00005, with corresponding volume identifiers of VOLUMEIDENTIFIER0000001, VOLUMEIDENTIFIER0000002, VOLUMEIDENTIFIER0000003, VOLUMEIDENTIFIER0000004, and VOLUMEIDENTIFIER0000005 to the BRMS media inventory with a media class of OPTUDF. The volumes are initialized as VOLUMEIDENTIFIER0000001, VOLUMEIDENTIFIER0000002, VOLUMEIDENTIFIER0000003, VOLUMEIDENTIFIER0000004, and VOLUMEIDENTIFIER0000005 using device OPT01.

Top

Error messages for ADDMEDBRM

*ESCAPE Messages

BRM1134
Device &1 not found.

BRM133E
Image catalog entry does not exist for virtual volume &4.

BRM133F
Image catalog does not exist for virtual volume &4.

BRM1713
Media class &2 not found.

BRM1717
Volume cannot be renamed &3.

BRM1762
Volume &1 was not initialized.

BRM1917
Feature not installed.

BRM1921
Feature not licensed.

BRM4040
Access denied for user &1.

BRM4041
Access denied for user &1.

BRM40A2
BRMS product initialization required.

CPF9800
All CPF98xx messages could be signaled. xx is from 01 to FF.

Top