Start Subsystem (STRSBS)

Start Subsystem (STRSBS)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Start Subsystem (STRSBS) command starts a subsystem using the subsystem description specified in the command. When the subsystem is started, the system allocates the necessary and available resources (storage, work stations, and job queues) that are specified in the subsystem description.

Allocating Storage: Storage is allocated to the subsystem according to the storage pool definitions specified in the subsystem description, starting with the lower numbered storage pool definitions. If all the pool definitions cannot be allocated, because the maximum number of storage pools on the system is reached or because insufficient storage is available, messages indicating which pools could not be allocated are sent to the system operator. If storage becomes available later, or if the number of active storage pools is reduced, the available resources are automatically allocated to the subsystem to satisfy its unfulfilled requirements. Any jobs that would normally run in a storage pool that is not allocated are run in the shared storage pool *BASE.

Allocating Work Stations: Work stations are allocated to the subsystem according to the work station entries in the subsystem description. Each work station whose name (or type, if not specified by name) is contained in one of the subsystem description's work station entries, and whose entry specifies AT(*SIGNON), is allocated to this subsystem unless it is currently signed on to another subsystem. The sign-on prompt is displayed on each work station that is allocated. Work stations that are already signed on in another subsystem remain allocated to that subsystem until the subsystem that allowed the sign-on is ended, or until the user transfers the job to this subsystem.

If multiple subsystems specify the same work station in their work station entries, each subsystem, as it is started, attempts to allocate that work station. Each successive subsystem allocates that work station unless a user signs on while the work station is allocated to one of the previously started subsystems. When a signed-on work station is signed off, it still remains allocated to the same subsystem until another subsystem is started that specifies that work station. However, if a work station is varied offline and several active subsystems specify that work station, the subsystem to which the work station is allocated when it is varied online is unpredictable.

Allocating Job Queues: If a job queue is specified in the work entries of the subsystem description, the job queue is allocated to the subsystem. If the job queue does not exist or if it is already allocated to an active subsystem, no job queue is allocated to the subsystem and a message is sent to the system operator. If the job queue later becomes available, it is automatically allocated to the subsystem.

Restrictions:

- To use this command, you must have:

use (*USE) authority to the subsystem description and execute (*EXECUTE) authority to the library that contains that subsystem description.

job control (*JOBCTL) special authority.

use (*USE) authority to all auxiliary storage pool (ASP) device descriptions in the ASP group if the subsystem description specifies an ASP group.

- If the subsystem description specifies an ASP group, the specified ASP group must be varied on and have a status of 'Available'.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
SBSD | Subsystem description | Qualified object name | Required, Positional 1
Qualifier 1: Subsystem description | Name
Qualifier 2: Library | Name, *LIBL, *CURLIB

Top

Subsystem description (SBSD)

Specifies the name and library of the subsystem description that defines the operational environment (subsystem) being started.

The name of the subsystem description cannot be the same as the name of a subsystem that is currently active, even though the subsystem descriptions are in different libraries.

This is a required parameter.

Qualifier 1: Subsystem description

name
Specify the name of the subsystem description that defines the subsystem being started.

Note: The IBM-supplied object named QLPINSTALL is not allowed for the subsystem description name.

Qualifier 2: Library

*LIBL
All libraries in the thread's library list are searched until a match is found.

*CURLIB
The current library for the thread is used to locate the object. If no library is specified as the current library for the thread, the QGPL library is used.

name
Specify the library where the subsystem description is located.

Note: The library QTEMP is not allowed for the library name.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Starting the Batch Subsystem

STRSBS SBSD(QBATCH)

This command starts the batch subsystem named QBATCH.

Example 2: Starting a User Subsystem

STRSBS SBSD(QGPL/TELLER)

This command starts the subsystem that is associated with the TELLER subsystem description in the QGPL library. The subsystem name is TELLER.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF1001
Wait time expired for system response.

CPF1004
Function check occurred during start subsystem.

CPF101B
Subsystem &1 not started. ASP group &3 not available.

CPF101C
Not authorized to device &1.

CPF1010
Subsystem name &1 active.

CPF1011
Start subsystem failed for SBSD &1 in library &2.

CPF1012
No authority to start subsystem.

CPF1013
Subsystem &1 in library &2 not found.

CPF1014
Subsystem &1 not started.

CPF1031
Not authorized to library &1.

CPF1038
No authority to use command.

CPF1049
Cannot allocate subsystem &1 in library &2.

CPF1050
Not enough storage to start subsystem.

CPF1057
Subsystem &1 in library &2 damaged.

CPF1067
Cannot allocate library &1.

CPF1080
Library &1 not found.

CPF1086
Subsystem &1 in &2 allocated to your job.

CPF1099
Subsystem not started because system ending.

CPF3D87
Attempted to use system program QLPCTLIN in QSYS.

Top