Floating-Point Data and Intermediate Results

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Appendixes > Appendix B. Intermediate Results and Arithmetic Precision > Compiler Calculation of Intermediate Results > Compiler Calculation of Intermediate Results

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Appendixes > Appendix B. Intermediate Results and Arithmetic Precision > Compiler Calculation of Intermediate Results

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension
Floating-Point Data and Intermediate Results
Floating-point instructions are used to compute an arithmetic expression
if any of the following conditions are true: A receiver or operand in the expression is COMP-1, COMP-2, external
floating-point data, or a floating-point literal.
An intrinsic numeric function is a floating-point function.
The expression is an argument of a floating-point function.

If any operation in an arithmetic expression is computed in floating-point,
the entire expression is computed as if all operands were converted
to floating-point and the operations are evaluated using floating-point
instructions.
If an expression is computed in floating-point, double-precision
floating-point is used if any receiver or operand in the expression
is not COMP-1, or if a multiplication or exponentiation operation
appears in the expression. Whenever double-precision floating-point
is used for one operation in an arithmetic expression, all operations
in the expression are computed as if double-precision floating-point
instructions were used.
Floating-point exponentiations are always evaluated using double-precision
floating-point arithmetic.
The value of a negative number raised to a fractional power is
undefined. For example, (-2) ** 3 is equal to -8, but (-2) ** (3.000001)
is not defined. When an exponentiation is evaluated in floating-point
and there is a possibility that the value of the exponentiation will
be undefined (as in the example above), then the value of the exponent
is evaluated at run time to determine if it is actually an integer.
The floating-point numeric functions will always return a double-precision
floating-point value. For a list of the floating-point and fixed-point
functions, see "Types of Numeric Functions" in the IBM® Rational® Development Studio
for i: ILE COBOL Programmer's Guide.
Arithmetic expressions can appear in contexts other than arithmetic
statements. For example, an arithmetic expression can be used with
the IF statement. In such statements, the rules for intermediate
results, floating-point, and double-precision floating-point apply,
with the following changes: Abbreviated IF statements are handled as though the statements
were not abbreviated.
An explicit relation condition exists when a required relational
operator is used to define the comparison between two operands (here
referred to as comparands). In an explicit relation condition where
one or both of the comparands is an arithmetic expression, the rules
for intermediate results are determined by taking into consideration
the attributes of both comparands. That is to say, dmax is defined
to be the maximum number of decimal places defined for any operand
of either comparand, except divisors and exponents. The rules for
floating-point and double-precision floating-point apply if any operand
in either comparand is COMP-1, COMP-2, external floating-point data,
or a floating-point literal. For example, in the statement: IF operand-1 = expression-1 THEN . . .
where
operand-1 is a data-name defined to be COMP-2, and expression-1 contains
only fixed-point operands, the rules for floating-point arithmetic
apply to expression-1 because it is being compared to a floating-point
operand.

When the comparison between an arithmetic expression and either
a data item or another arithmetic expression is defined without using
a relational operator, then no explicit relation condition is said
to exist. In these cases, the comparison can be rewritten as one or
more IF statements with an explicit operator. Each IF statement then
follows the rules outlined above for an explicit relation condition.
For example, in the statement:

EVALUATE expression-1
WHEN expression-2 THRU expression-3
WHEN expression-4
.
.
.
END-EVALUATE
the equivalent IF statements are: IF expression-1 >= expression-2 AND
expression-1 <= expression-3
IF expression-1 = expression-4
then for each IF statement, the comparands must be looked at
to determine if all the arithmetic in that IF statement will
be fixed-point or floating-point.

Parent topic: Compiler Calculation of Intermediate Results

End of IBM Extension End of IBM Extension