Remove Network Job Entry (RMVNETJOBE)

Remove Network Job Entry (RMVNETJOBE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Remove Network Job Entry (RMVNETJOBE) command removes a network job entry from the system. The network job entry determines the action taken when a batch input stream is sent to a user on this system using the Submit Network Job (SBMNETJOB) command.

The entry also specifies the user profile that is used for checking the authority to the job description referred to in the batch job. There should be one entry for each user or group of users who submit jobs to this system.

This command is used to remove an entry for a specific user. An entry with a generic ID may still exist that is in effect for that user. For example, if the user removes the entry for user ID, JOE PGMRS, and if there is an entry with a user ID, *ANY PGMRS or *ANY *ANY, that entry is used to handle any jobs submitted by JOE PGMRS. Additional information on the job entry table is in the SNA Distribution Services book, SC41-5410.

Restrictions:

- This command is shipped with public *EXCLUDE authority.

- The internal value for a node identifier may differ from the characters shown by the RMVNETJOBE command depending on the type of work station (language) being used. If the byte-string value specified for the FROMUSRID command parameter does not match the rules for an internal node identifier value, or if it does not match the internal value for any defined node (ignoring case differences), an error may be reported.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
FROMUSRID | User ID | Element list | Required, Positional 1
Element 1: User ID | Character value
Element 2: User ID qualifier | Character value

Top

User ID (FROMUSRID)

Specifies the two-part user ID that identifies the network job entry that is removed.

This is a required parameter.

Both parts of the user ID are required.

Note: Depending on the work station being used, the internal value for a new user identifier may differ from the characters shown by the Display Network Job Entry (DSPNETJOBE) command. If the byte-string value specified for the FROMUSRID parameter does not match the rules for an internal user identifier value, or if it does not match the internal value for any enrolled user, an error may be reported.

Top

Examples

RMVNETJOBE FROMUSRID(JOE SMITH)

This command removes the network job entry that is used to determine the action that is taken for any input streams received from user ID, JOE SMITH. The network job authority for user ID, JOE SMITH, is taken from either the network job entry *ANY SMITH, if that entry exists, or from the network job entry *ANY *ANY, if that entry exists. If neither of these entries exist, all jobs received from user ID, JOE SMITH, are rejected.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF8050
Network job table could not be accessed.

CPF8051
*ANY not correct for second part of user ID.

CPF8054
Network job entry &1 &2 not removed.

CPF9040
Wrong characters used in User ID or address, or List identifier &1 &2.

Top