SFLRNA (Subfile Records Not Active) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

SFLRNA (Subfile Records Not Active) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword with the Subfile
Initialize (SFLINZ) keyword on the subfile-control record format so that your
program can initialize a subfile with no active records. To do this, your
program sends an output operation to the subfile-control record
format with the SFLINZ keyword selected.

The subfile itself becomes active. Subfile records
are not considered active unless one of the following conditions occurs:
Your program sends an output operation to the subfile record format, placing
data in one of the subfile records. The subfile record becomes active but
is not considered changed unless the SFLNXTCHG keyword is also in effect.

After your program displays the subfile, the workstation user types data
into subfile records. The records typed in become active and changed.

This keyword has no parameters.
SFLRNA is normally used
so that a program can write some records to the subfile before displaying
it, and the workstation user can then add records to the subfile.
When
your program displays a subfile initialized with the SFLINZ and SFLRNA keywords
in effect, fields in inactive records have the following values:
Character fields are blank.

Numeric fields are zero-filled.

An input-only field with a constant value specified has the constant value.

Your program cannot send an input operation to an inactive subfile
record. Issuing a get-next-changed operation to one of the subfile records
returns the record only when the record has become active and has been changed.
Your
program cannot send output operations to active records (SFLRNA not specified).
It must send update operations. Also, your program cannot send update operations
to inactive records (SFLRNA specified). It must send output operations.
The
SFLINZ keyword is required when SFLRNA is specified.
SFLRNA cannot be
specified for a message subfile (identified by the SFLMSGRCD keyword on the
subfile record format).
If the subfile record format contains field
selection, SFLRNA is not valid.
Option indicators are not valid for
this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the SFLRNA keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R SFLR SFL
A*
A* (at least one displayable field)
A*
00040A R SFLCTLR SFLCTL(SFLR)
00050A SFLPAG(17)
00060A SFLSIZ(17)
00070A SFLDSP SFLDSPCTL
00080A SFLINZ
00090A SFLRNA
A