Generating UIM source for command help

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Documenting command > Writing command help > Writing command help

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Documenting command > Writing command help

Generating UIM source for command help
As a simpler alternative to learning UIM syntax, you
can use the Generate Command Documentation (GENCMDDOC) command
to generate online help for commands. With this command, you can create a
file that contains UIM source. The file provides a template for the online
command help.
To create the UIM source, you need to specify *UIM for the GENOPT
(Generation Options) parameter. The information used to create the template
is retrieved from the command object (*CMD) you specify. Using Generate
Command Documentation (GENCMDDOC) to create the UIM source can simplify
writing online help for your CL commands.
The following is an example
of using the Generate Command Documentation (GENCMDDOC) command
to generate a UIM template:
GENCMDDOC CMD(MYLIB/MYCMD)
TODIR('/QSYS.LIB/MYLIB.LIB/QPNLSRC.FILE')
TOSTMF(*CMD) GENOPT(*UIM)
In the example, the command retrieves information from the
command object named MYCMD in library MYLIB and generates UIM source into
member MYCMD of source file QPNLSRC in library MYLIB. After the template
UIM source has been generated, you will need to edit the UIM source as follows:

Ensure that the command-level help module describes the purpose of the
command. The start of the first sentence is provided followed by a <...> marker
that you need to replace with the appropriate text. Ensure that restrictions
that apply to running the command are described, such as commands that must
be run first, or special authorizations needed. Some example restrictions
are provided; you should edit these to match your command's restrictions.
Ensure that each parameter-level help module explains the purpose of the
parameter. The start of the first sentence is provided followed by a <...> marker
that you need to replace with the appropriate text. You may also want to
describe any inter-parameter dependencies or restrictions; you can use the
:NT. (Note) and :ENT. (End of Note) UIM tags for these parameter-level restrictions.
The parameter-level help module also should provide a description of
the possible choices for the parameter. Headings for each special value
or single value are provided, but you need to replace the <...> markers
with the parameter value descriptions.

Ensure that examples are provided as needed. The command examples help
module is primed with headings for two examples. If the command has no parameters,
you could edit this help module to have only a single example. If the command
has many parameters, or provides several distinct functions, you can copy
the headings to create additional command examples. You need to edit the
command examples to insert your own commands' parameter keywords and parameter
values and to replace the <...> markers with the descriptions
of what the example commands would do.
Ensure that error message text is provided as needed. The command error
messages help module is primed with headings showing how you can use the &MSG.
built-in function to embed the message text of error messages sent by the
command. You need to edit the list of messages to contain the actual message
identifiers of messages signaled from your command, along with the message
file that contains the message descriptions.

After you have edited the UIM source to tailor it to
your command, you can create the online help panel group by using the Create
Panel Group (CRTPNLGRP) command. The following example shows how
to use the Create Panel Group (CRTPNLGRP) command:
CRTPNLGRP PNLGRP(MYLIB/MYCMD)
SRCFILE(MYLIB/QPNLSRC) SRCMBR(MYCMD)
This command attempts to create a panel group from the UIM
source in member MYCMD in source physical file QPNLSRC in library MYLIB.
If there are no severe errors found when compiling the UIM source, a panel
group (*PNLGRP) object named MYCMD is created in library MYCMD. The command
generates a spooled file, which can be viewed to see informational, warning,
and severe errors found by the UIM compiler.

Parent topic: Writing command help

Related information
Create Panel Group (CRTPNLGRP) command
Generate Command Documentation (GENCMDDOC) command