Remove CRG Device Entry (RMVCRGDEVE)

Remove CRG Device Entry (RMVCRGDEVE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: Yes | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Remove Cluster Resource Group Device Entry (RMVCRGDEVE) command removes one or more configuration objects from a device cluster resource group. All configuration object entries can be removed but at least one configuration object entry must exist before the Start Cluster Resource Group (STRCRG) command can be called.

For configuration objects with type *DEVD, the ownership of the hardware associated with the configuration object being removed is not affected. The hardware is still owned by whatever node owned it before this command was called.

If an exit program is specified for the cluster resource group, the cluster resource group exit program is called with an action code of Remove Device Entry on all active nodes in the recovery domain. The cluster resource group status is set to Remove Device Entry Pending. If the exit program completes successfully, the cluster resource group status is reset to its value at the time the command was called. If the exit program fails and the cluster resource group cannot be restored to its original condition, the cluster resource group status is set to Indoubt.

Restrictions:

- You must have input/output system configuration (*IOSYSCFG) special authority on all nodes in the recovery domain to run this command.

- This command cannot be called from a cluster resource group exit program.

- Cluster Resource Services must be active on the node processing the request.

- At least one node in the recovery domain must be active.

- If the cluster resource group is Active, the last device entry cannot be removed. The cluster resource group must be ended first.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
CRG | Cluster resource group | Name | Required, Positional 1
CFGOBJ | Configuration object list | Values (up to 256 repetitions): Element list | Required, Positional 2
Element 1: Configuration object | Name
Element 2: Configuration object type | *DEVD, *IPA
CLUSTER | Cluster | Name, * | Optional

Top

Cluster resource group (CRG)

Specifies the cluster resource group from which device list entries are being removed.

This is a required parameter.

name
Specify the name of the cluster resource group which contains the device list entries.

Top

Configuration object list (CFGOBJ)

Specifies the resilient devices that are to be removed from the cluster resource group.

You can specify up to 256 values for this parameter.

This is a required parameter.

Element 1: Configuration object

Specifies the configuration object which will be removed from the device list of the cluster resource group.

name
Specify the name of the configuration object.

Element 2: Configuration object type

Specifies the object type of the configuration object specified for element 1.

*DEVD
Configuration object of type device description.

*IPA
Configuration object of type IP address.

Top

Cluster (CLUSTER)

Specifies the name of the cluster.

*
The cluster that has been configured on this system is used.

name
Specify the name of the cluster.

Top

Examples for RMVCRGDEVE

Example 1: Remove a device description configuration object.

RMVCRGDEVE CRG(MYCRG)
CFGOBJ((IASP01 *DEVD))

This command removes configuration object IASP01 from an existing cluster resource group MYCRG.

Example 2: Remove an IP address configuration object.

RMVCRGDEVE CRG(MYCRG)
CFGOBJ((IP01 *IPA))

This command removes configuration object IP01 from an existing cluster resource group MYCRG.

Top

Error messages for RMVCRGDEVE

*ESCAPE Messages

HAE0021
Request to remove device entries from cluster resource group &1 failed.

Top