Data manipulation commands

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Working with files in CL programs or procedures > Working with files in CL programs or procedures

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Working with files in CL programs or procedures

Data manipulation commands
A CL procedure or program can use several commands called data
manipulation commands.
These commands let you refer to a display file to send data to
and receive data from device displays. These commands also allows you to refer
to a database file to read records from a database file. These commands are:
Declare File (DCLF)
Defines a display or database file to be used in a procedure or program.
The fields in the file are automatically declared as variables for use in
the procedure or program.
Send File (SNDF)
Sends data to the display.
Receive File (RCVF)
Receives data from the display or database.
Send/Receive File (SNDRCVF)
Sends data to the display; then asks for input and, optionally, receives
data from the display.
Override with Display File (OVRDSPF)
Allows a runtime override of a file used by a procedure or program with
a display file.
Override with Database File (OVRDBF)
Allows a runtime override of a file used by a procedure or program with
a database file.

These commands let a running program communicate with a
device display using the display functions provided by DDS, and to read records
from a database file. DDS provides functions for writing menus and performing
basic application-oriented data requests that are characteristic of many CL
applications.
The fields on the display or in the record are
identified in the DDS for the file. In order for the CL procedure or program
to use the fields, the file must be referred to in the CL procedure or program
by the Declare File (DCLF) command. This reference causes
the fields and indicators in the file to be declared automatically in your
procedure or program as variables. You can use these variables in any way
in CL commands; however, their primary purpose is to send information to and
receive information from a display. The Declare File (DCLF) command
is not used at run time.
The format of the display and the options for
the fields are specified in the device file and controlled through the use
of indicators. Up to 99 indicator values can be used with DDS and CL support.
Indicator variables are declared in your CL procedure or program in the form
of logical variables with names &IN01 through &IN99 for each indicator
that appears in the device file record formats referred to on the Declare
File (DCLF) command. Indicators let you display fields and control
data management display functions, and provide response information to your
procedure or program from the device display. Indicators are not used with
database files.

Parent topic: Working with files in CL programs or procedures

Related information
CL command finder