Column name qualifiers in correlated references

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Column names > Column names

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Column names

Column name qualifiers in correlated references
A subselect is a form of a query that can be used
as a component of various SQL statements.
Refer to Queries for more
information about subselects. A subquery is a form of a fullselect
that is enclosed within parentheses. For example, a subquery can
be used in a search condition. A fullselect used in the FROM clause
of a query is called a nested table expression.
A subquery can include search conditions of its own, and
these search conditions can, in turn, include subqueries. Therefore,
an SQL statement can contain a hierarchy of subqueries. Those elements
of the hierarchy that contain subqueries are said to be at a higher
level than the subqueries they contain.
Every element of the hierarchy has a clause that establishes
one or more table designators. This is the FROM clause, except in
the highest level of an UPDATE or DELETE statement. A search condition,
the select list, the join clause, an argument of a table function
in a subquery, or a nested table expression that is preceded
by the LATERAL keyword can reference not only columns of the tables
identified by the FROM clause of its own element of the hierarchy,
but also columns of tables identified at any level along the path
from its own element to the highest level of the hierarchy. A reference
to a column of a table identified at a higher level is called a correlated
reference. A reference to a column of a table identified at the
same level from a nested table expression through the use of
the LATERAL keyword is called lateral correlation.
A correlated reference to column C of table T can be of
the form C, T.C, or Q.C, if Q is a correlation name defined for T.
However, a correlated reference in the form of an unqualified column
name is not good practice. The following explanation is based on the
assumption that a correlated reference is always in the form of a
qualified column name and that the qualifier is a correlation name.
Q.C is a correlated reference only if these three conditions
are met:
Q.C is used in a search condition, select list, join clause, or
an argument of a table function in a subquery.
Q does not designate a table used in the FROM clause of that subquery,
select list, join clause, or an argument of a table function in a
subquery.
Q does designate a table used at some higher level.

Q.C refers to column C of the table or view at the level
where Q is used as the table designator of that table or view. Because
the same table or view can be identified at many levels, unique correlation
names are recommended as table designators. If Q is used to designate
a table at more than one level, Q.C refers to the lowest level that
contains the subquery that includes Q.C.
In the following statement, Q is used as a correlation
name for T1 and T2, but Q.C refers to the correlation name associated
with T2, because it is the lowest level that contains the subquery
that includes Q.C.
SELECT *
FROM T1 Q
WHERE A < ALL (SELECT B
FROM T2 Q
WHERE B < ANY (SELECT D
FROM T3
WHERE D = Q.C))

Parent topic: Column names