CHCUNAVAIL (Choice Color/Display Attribute when Unavailable) keyword
for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

CHCUNAVAIL (Choice Color/Display Attribute when Unavailable) keyword
for display files

You use this field-level keyword to specify the
color or display attributes to be used when the system displays
the unavailable choices in a selection field or a push button field.

This keyword can also be used to indicate unavailable choices
in a subfile single or multiple choice selection list.
The format of
the keyword is: CHCUNAVAIL([color] [display-attributes])
One
parameter must be specified.
The color parameter indicates the color
of choice text specified on the CHOICE keywords for the field on a color display
station, when the choices are unavailable. It also indicates the color of
unavailable entries in a single or multiple choice selection list displayed
on a color display.
The valid values for the color parameter are:

Value

Meaning

BLU

Blue

GRN

Green

PNK

Pink

RED

Red

TRQ

Turquoise

YLW

Yellow

WHT

White

If the color parameter is not specified, the default color for
unavailable choices in a selection field is blue. This parameter is ignored
on a monochrome display.
The display-attribute parameter indicates the
display attributes of the choice text specified on the CHOICE or PSHBTNCHC
keyword for the field. The parameter is specified as an expression of the
form (*DSPATR value1 <value2 <value3...>>).

Value

Meaning

BL

Blink

CS

Column separator

HI

High intensity

ND

Nondisplay

RI

Reverse image

UL

Underline

The default display attribute for unavailable choices in a selection
field on monochrome display stations is normal (or low) intensity. Also, the
first character of an unavailable choice on a monochrome display station is
overwritten with an asterisk (*).
Note: Display attributes CS, HI, and
BL can cause fields on 5292, 3179, 3197 Models C1 and C2, 3486, 3487 Model
HC, and 34881 workstations
to appear as color fields. Separator lines do not appear when display attributes
HI, RI, and UL are used.
When used on a field specification, this
keyword is allowed only if there are also one or more CHOICE or PSHBTNCHC
keywords. When used on a subfile control record, this keyword is allowed only
if the SFLSNGCHC or SFLMLTCHC keyword is also used on the subfile control
record.
Option indicators are valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the CHCUNAVAIL keyword:
|....+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A
A R RECORD
A F1 2Y 0B 2 5SNGCHCFLD CHECK(ER)
A CHOICE(1 'Choice number 1')
A CHOICE(2 'Choice number 2')
A CHCCTL(1 &CHCCTL1);
A CHCCTL(2 &CHCCTL2);
A CHCUNAVAIL((*COLOR TRQ))
A :
A :
AIn this example, the unavailable choices for the selection
field are displayed in turquoise on a color display.

1 Dependent on the monitor attached to the display device.