Change DHCP Server (CHGDHCPSVR)

Change DHCP Server (CHGDHCPSVR)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

(CHGDHCPSVR) Use this command to change the attributes of the active DHCP Server.

The changes take effect immediately.

Restriction:

You must have *IOSYSCFG special authority to use this command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
STATE | State | *PARTDOWN, *SAME | Optional

Top

State (STATE)

This parameter can only be set for a DHCP server that is configured for DHCP failover. If you attempt to change the state of a DHCP server that is not configured for DHCP failover, this command will have no effect on the running DHCP server.

The STATE attribute is used to inform the active DHCP server that its failover partner is down. Normally the failover partner DHCP server will inform this DHCP server when it goes down, but in some situations the partner DHCP server may not be able to inform this DHCP server that it is down. When this DHCP server knows that its partner is down, it can take over service of the failover partner DHCP server's leases and will be able to give out normal leases.

Before you use this command, you must be sure that the failover partner DHCP server is actually down. If you put this DHCP server into the partner-down state when the failover partner DHCP server is not down, but is just not reachable, IP address assignment conflicts are possible.

Once a server has been put into partner-down state, its failover partner must not be brought back online until communication is possible between the two DHCP servers.

Once the failover partner DHCP server does come back online, nothing needs to be done to this DHCP server, it will be automatically informed by the partner DHCP server that the partner is back online and will automatically change its state back to normal.

*SAME
Specify *SAME if you do not want to change the STATE value from the previous setting.

*PARTDOWN
Set this value to *PARTDOWN if you want the DHCP server operate in the partner down state.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Change the DHCP Server state to partner down state

CHGDHCPSVR STATE(*PARTDOWN)

This command changes the state of the DHCP server to the partner down state.

Top

Error messages

Unknown

Top