Add Server Auth Entry (ADDSVRAUTE)

Add Server Auth Entry (ADDSVRAUTE)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Add Server Authentication Entry (ADDSVRAUTE) command adds authentication information for use by application requesters in connecting to application servers.

When using the ADDSVRAUTE command to add a server authorization entry for a Distributed Relational Database Architecture (DRDA) application that uses TCP/IP, make sure that the server name is entered in upper case.

Restrictions: You must have security administrator (*SECADM) special authority, and object management (*OBJMGT) and use (*USE) authorities to the user profile to which the server authentication entry is to be added, or else be signed on under that user profile, to run this command.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
USRPRF | User profile | Simple name, *CURRENT | Required, Positional 1
SERVER | Server | Character value | Required, Positional 2
USRID | User ID | Character value, *USRPRF | Optional
PASSWORD | User password | Character value, *NONE | Optional

Top

User profile (USRPRF)

Specifies the user profile for which the server authentication entry is to be added.

This is a required parameter.

*CURRENT
The server authentication entry will be added for the current user.

name
Specify the name of the user for which to add the server authentication entry.

Top

Server (SERVER)

Specifies the name of the application server for which the entry is to be added.

This is a required parameter.

name
Specify the name for the particular application server for which the entry is to be added. Specify no more than 200 characters.

Note: Refer to the documentation for the server that you are using to determine if there are any values that have special meaning. For example, the server name QDDMSERVER has special meaning if you are using the Distributed Data Management (DDM) server.

Top

User ID (USRID)

Specifies the user name for which requests will be made to the application server.

*USRPRF
The name specified in the user profile parameter will be the user ID specified on connection requests to the server.

'name'
Specify the name of the user to be used on connection requests. Specify no more than 1000 characters.

Top

User password (PASSWORD)

Specifies the password to be used to authenticate the user when the client attempts to connect to the server.

*NONE
No password is supplied on the connection request.

'password'
Specify the password associated with the user ID. Specify no more than 696 characters.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Adding a default remote user ID and password for the current user

ADDSVRAUTE USRPRF(*CURRENT) SERVER(*ANY) USRID('JOHN')
PASSWORD('XU53W4')

This command adds a server authentication entry for the currently signed on user specifying that for connection requests to any server for which there is no specific authentication entry, a remote user ID of JOHN and a password of XU53W4 is to be used.

Example 2: Adding an entry for another user for a specific server

ADDSVRAUTE USRPRF(SUSAN) SERVER('MPLS_RDB') USRID('SUSIE')
PASSWORD('S23084')

This command adds an entry such that when a user is signed on to the local system under the user profile of SUSAN and attempts to connect to the server named MPLS_RDB, the user ID and password accompanying the connection request will be SUSIE and S23084.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF2204
User profile &1 not found.

CPF2213
Not able to allocate user profile &1.

CPF2222
Storage limit is greater than specified for user profile &1.

CPF224F
Server authentication entry already exists.

CPF226C
Not authorized to perform function.

Top