Overriding database files in a CL procedure or program (OVRDBF command)

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Working with files in CL programs or procedures > Working with files in CL programs or procedures

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Working with files in CL programs or procedures

Overriding database files in a CL procedure or program (OVRDBF command)
The Override with Database File (OVRDBF) command
overrides the database file named in a CL procedure or program, or changes
certain parameters of the existing database file.
This can be especially useful for files that have been renamed
or moved since the procedure or program is created. It can also be used to
access a file member other than the first member.
The initial parameters
of the OVRDBF command are as follows:
OVRDBF FILE(overridden-file-name) TOFILE(new-file-name)
MBR(member-name)
The Override with Database File (OVRDBF) command
is valid for a file referred to by a CL procedure or program only if the file
specified in the Declare File (DCLF) command was a database
file when the module or program was created. The file used when the program
was processed must be of the same type as the file referred to when the module
or program was created.
The Override with Database File (OVRDBF) command
must be processed before the file to be overridden is opened for use (an open
occurs by the first use of the Receive File (RCVF) command).
The file is overridden if it is opened in the procedure or original program
model (OPM) program containing the Override with Database File (OVRDBF) command,
or if it is opened in another program to which control is transferred by the
CALL command, or if it is opened in another procedure to which control is
transferred using the CALLPRC command.
When you override to a different
file, the overriding file must have only one record format. A logical file
which has multiple record formats defined in DDS may be used if it is defined
over only one physical file member. A logical file which has only one record
format defined in the DDS may be defined over more than one physical file
member. The name of the format does not have to be the same as the format
name referred to when the program was created. You should ensure that the
format of the data in the overriding file is the same as in the original file.
You may get unexpected results if you specify LVLCHK(*NO).

Parent topic: Working with files in CL programs or procedures

Related information
Override with Data Base File (OVRDBF) command