LOCATE_IN_STRING

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

LOCATE_IN_STRING
The LOCATE_IN_STRING function returns the starting position
of a string (called the search-string) within another string
(called the source-string). If the search-string is
not found and neither argument is null, the result is zero. If the search-string is
found, the result is a number from 1 to the actual length of the source-string.
If the optional start is specified, it indicates the character
position in the source-string at which the search is to begin.
LOCATE_IN_STRING(source-string,search-string,start,instance)
If the optional start is specified, it indicates
the character position in the source-string at which the search
is to begin. If start is specified, an optional instance number
can also be specified. The instance argument is used to determine
the specific occurrence of search-string within source-string.
Each unique instance can include any of the characters in a previous
instance, but not all characters in a previous instance.
If
the search-string has a length of zero, the result returned
by the function is 1. If the source-string has a length of
zero, the result returned by the function is 0. If neither condition
exists, and if the value of search-string is equal to an identical
length of a substring of contiguous positions within the value of source-string,
the result returned by the function is the starting position of that
substring within the source-string value; otherwise, the result
returned by the function is 0.
source-string
An expression that specifies the source string in which the search
is to take place. source-string may be any
built-in numeric, datetime, or string expression. A numeric or datetime
argument is cast to a character string before evaluating the function.
For more information about converting numeric and datetime to a character
string, see VARCHAR.
search-string
An expression that specifies the string that is to be searched
for. search-string may be any built-in numeric,
datetime, or string expression. It must be compatible with the source-string.
A numeric or datetime argument is cast to a character string before
evaluating the function. For more information about converting numeric
and datetime to a character string, see VARCHAR.
start
An expression that specifies the position within source-string at
which the search is to start. start may be any built-in numeric,
character string, or graphic string expression. If the value is not
of type INTEGER, it is implicitly cast to INTEGER before evaluating
the function. If the value of the integer is greater than zero,
the search begins at start and continues for each position
to the end of the string. If the value of the integer is less than
zero, the search begins at CHARACTER_LENGTH(source-string)
+ start + 1 and continues for each position to the beginning
of the string.
If start is not specified,
the function is equivalent to:
  POSITION( search-string , source-string )
If start is zero, an error is returned.

instance
An expression that specifies which instance of search-string to
search for within source-string. The expression must return
a value that is a built-in numeric, character string, or graphic string
data type. If the value is not of type INTEGER, it is implicitly cast
to INTEGER before evaluating the function. If instance is not
specified, the default is 1. The value of the integer must be greater
than or equal to 1.

At each search position, a match is found when the substring
at that position and CHARACTER_LENGTH(search-string) - 1 values
to the right of the search position in source-string, is equal
to search-string.
The result of the function is a large
integer. The result is the starting position of the instance of search-string within source-string.
The value is relative to the beginning of the string (regardless of
the specification of start).
If any argument can be
null, the result can be null; if any argument is null, the result
is the null value.
The LOCATE_IN_STRING function operates on a character
basis. Because LOCATE_IN_STRING operates on a character-string basis,
any shift-in and shift-out characters are not required to be in exactly
the same position and their only significance is to indicate which
characters are SBCS and which characters are DBCS.
If the CCSID
of the search-string is different than the
CCSID of the source-string, it is converted
to the CCSID of the source-string.
If
a collating sequence other than *HEX is in effect when the statement
that contains the LOCATE_IN_STRING function is executed and the arguments
are SBCS data, mixed data, or Unicode data, then the result is obtained
by comparing weighted values for each value in the set. The weighted
values are based on the collating sequence. An ICU collating sequence
table may not be specified with the LOCATE function.
Syntax
alternatives: INSTR can be used as a synonym for LOCATE_IN_STRING.
ExampleLocate the character 'ß' in the string 'Jürgen lives
on Hegelstraße' by searching from the end of the string, and
set the host variable POSITION with the position within the string.SET :POSITION = LOCATE_IN_STRING('Jürgen lives on Hegelstraße','ß',-1);
The
value of host variable POSITION is set to 26.
Find the position of an occurrence of the character 'N' in the
string 'WINNING' by searching from the start of the string. SELECT LOCATE_IN_STRING('WINNING','N',1,3),
LOCATE_IN_STRING('WINNING','N',3,2),
LOCATE_IN_STRING('WINNING','N',3,3)
FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1;
Returns the values:6 4 6

Find the position of an occurrence of the character 'N' in the
string 'WINNING' by searching from the end of the string. SELECT LOCATE_IN_STRING('WINNING','N',-1,3),
LOCATE_IN_STRING('WINNING','N',-3,2),
LOCATE_IN_STRING('WINNING','N',-3,3)
FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1;
Returns the values:3 3 0

Parent topic: Scalar functions