RPG IV Specification Types

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > About Specifications > About Specifications

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > About Specifications

RPG IV Specification Types

There are three groups of source records that may be
coded in an RPG IV program: the main source section, the subprocedure
section, and the program data section. The main source section consists of the first set of H, F, D, I, C®, and O specifications in a module, or their free-form equivalents. If MAIN or NOMAIN is specified on a Control specification, this section does not contain a cycle-main procedure, and so it cannot contain any executable calculations. If the keyword MAIN or NOMAIN is not specified, this corresponds to a standalone program or a cycle-main procedure. Every module requires a main source section independently of whether subprocedures are coded.

The subprocedure section contains
specifications that define any subprocedures coded within a module.
The program data section contains
source records with data that is supplied at compile time.

The RPG IV language consists of a mixture of position-dependent
code and free form code. Those specifications which support keywords
(control, file description, definition, and procedure) allow free
format in the keyword fields.
Fully free-format specifications are allowed for
Control,
File Description,
Definition, and
Procedure statements.
Fully free-format specifications are also
allowed for calculation statements with those operation codes
which support an extended-factor 2; see
Free-Form Calculation Statement.
Otherwise, RPG IV entries are position specific. To represent
this, each illustration of RPG IV code will be in listing format
with a scale drawn across the top.

The following illustration shows the types of source records that
may be entered into each group and their order.

Note
The RPG IV source must
be entered into the system in the order
shown in Table 1. Any of the specification
types can be absent, but at least one from the main source section
must be present.

File Description and Definition specifications may
be intermixed.

Table 1. Source Records and Their Order
in an RPG IV Source Program

Source Section

Order of Specifications

Main Source Section

      H     Control
      F,D   File Description and Definition
      I     Input
      C     Calculation
      O     Output  

Subprocedure Section

(Repeated for each procedure)    
      P     Procedure
      F,D   File Description and Definition
      C     Calculation
      P     Procedure              

Program Data when the ** form is used

      **
         File Translation Records
      **
         Alternate Collating Sequence Records
      **
         Compile-Time Array and Table Data  

Program Data when the **TYPE form is used

   (Specified in any order)      
      **CTDATA ARRAY1
            Compile-Time Array Data
      **FTRANS
               File Translation Records
      **CTDATA TABLE2
               Compile-Time Table Data
      **ALTSEQ
               Alternate Collating Sequence Records
      **CTDATA ARRAY3
               Compile-Time Array Data

Main Source Section Specifications

Subprocedure Specifications

Program Data

Parent topic: About Specifications