CREATE FUNCTION

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

CREATE FUNCTION
The CREATE FUNCTION statement defines a user-defined function
at the current server.
The following types of functions can be defined:
External Scalar The function is written in a
programming language such as C or Java™ and
returns a scalar value. The external program is referenced by a function
defined at the current server along with various attributes of the
function. See CREATE FUNCTION (external scalar).

External Table The function is written in a programming
language such as C or Java and
returns a set of rows. The external program is referenced by a function
defined at the current server along with various attributes of the
function. See CREATE FUNCTION (external table).

Sourced The function is implemented by invoking another
function (built-in, external, sourced, or SQL) that already exists
at the current server. A sourced function can return a scalar result,
or the result of an aggregate function. See CREATE FUNCTION (sourced).
The function inherits attributes of the underlying source function.

SQL Scalar The function is written exclusively
in SQL and returns a scalar value. The function body is defined at
the current server along with various attributes of the function.
See CREATE FUNCTION (SQL scalar).

SQL Table The function is written exclusively
in SQL and returns a set of rows. The function body is defined at
the current server along with various attributes of the function.
See CREATE FUNCTION (SQL table).

NotesChoosing the
schema and function name: If a qualified function name is specified,
the schema-name cannot be one of the system
schemas (see Schemas). If function-name is
not qualified, it is implicitly qualified with the default schema
name.
The unqualified function name must not be one of the following
names reserved for system use even if they are specified as delimited
identifiers:
=
<
>
>=

<=
<>
¬=
¬<

¬<
!=
!<
!>

ALL
FALSE
PERCENTILE_DISC
XMLAGG

AND
FOR
POSITION
XMLATTRIBUTES

ANY
FROM
RID
XMLCOMMENT

ARRAY_AGG
HASHED_VALUE
RRN
XMLCONCAT

BETWEEN
IN
SELECT
XMLDOCUMENT

BOOLEAN
IS
SIMILAR
XMLELEMENT

CASE
LIKE
SOME
XMLFOREST

CAST
MATCH
STRIP
XMLGROUP

CHECK
NODENAME
SUBSTRING
XMLNAMESPACES

DATAPARTITIONNAME
NODENUMBER
TABLE
XMLPARSE

DATAPARTITIONNUM
NOT
THEN
XMLPI

DBPARTITIONNAME
NULL
TRIM
XMLROW

DBPARTITIONNUM
ONLY
TRUE
XMLSERIALIZE

DISTINCT
OR
TYPE
XMLTEXT

EXCEPT
OVERLAPS
UNIQUE
XMLVALIDATE

EXISTS
PARTITION
UNKNOWN
XSLTRANSFORM

EXTRACT
PERCENTILE_CONT
WHEN
 

Defining the parameters: The
input parameters for the function are specified as a list within parenthesis.
The maximum number of parameters allowed in CREATE FUNCTION
is 2000.
A function can have no input parameters. In this case,
an empty set of parenthesis must be specified, for example:
CREATE FUNCTION WOOFER()

The data type of the result of the function is specified
in the RETURNS clause for the function.
Choosing data types for parameters: When choosing the data
types of the input and result parameters for a function, the rules
of promotion that can affect the values of the parameters need to
be considered. See Promotion of data types. For example,
a constant that is one of the input arguments to the function might
have a built-in data type that is different from the data type that
the function expects, and more significantly, might not be promotable
to that expected data type. Based on the rules of promotion, using
the following data types is recommended:INTEGER instead of SMALLINT
DOUBLE instead of REAL
VARCHAR instead of CHAR
VARGRAPHIC instead of GRAPHIC

For
portability of functions across platforms that are not DB2® for
i, do not use the following
data type names, which might have different representations on different
platforms:
FLOAT. Use DOUBLE or REAL instead.
NUMERIC. Use DECIMAL instead.

Specifying AS LOCATOR for a parameter: Passing
a locator instead of a value can result in fewer bytes being passed
in or out of the function. This can be useful when the value of the
parameter is very large. The AS LOCATOR clause specifies that a locator
to the value of the parameter is passed instead of the actual value.
Specify AS LOCATOR only for parameters that have a LOB
or XML data type or a distinct type based on a LOB or XML data
type and only when LANGUAGE JAVA is not in effect. The
AS LOCATOR clause has no effect on determining whether data types
can be promoted, nor does it affect the function signature, which
is used in function resolution.
AS LOCATOR cannot be specified
for SQL functions.

Determining the uniqueness of functions in a schema: The
same name can be used for more than one function in a schema if the
function signature of each function is unique. The function signature
is the qualified function name combined with the number and data types
of the input parameters. The combination of name, schema name, the
number of parameters, and the data type each parameter (without regard
for other attributes such as length, precision, scale, or CCSID) must
not identify a user-defined function that exists at the current server.
The return type has no impact on the determining uniqueness of a function.
Two different schemas can each contain a function with the same name
that have the same data types for all of their corresponding data
types. However, a schema must not contain two functions with the same
name that have the same data types for all of their corresponding
data types.
When determining whether corresponding data types match,
the database manager does not consider any length, precision, or scale
attributes in the comparison. The database manager considers the synonyms
of data types a match. For example, REAL and FLOAT, and DOUBLE and
FLOAT are considered a match. Therefore, CHAR(8) and CHAR(35) are
considered to be the same, as are DECIMAL(11,2), and DECIMAL(4,3).
Furthermore, the character and graphic types are considered to be
the same. For example, the following are considered to be the same
type: CHAR and GRAPHIC, VARCHAR and VARGRAPHIC, and CLOB and DBCLOB.
CHAR(13) and GRAPHIC(8) are considered to be the same type. An error
is returned if the signature of the function being created is a duplicate
of a signature for an existing user-defined function with the same
name and schema.
Assume that the following statements are executed to create
four functions in the same schema. The second and fourth statements
fail because they create functions that are duplicates of the functions
that the first and third statements created.
CREATE FUNCTION PART (INT, CHAR(15) ...
CREATE FUNCTION PART (INTEGER, CHAR(40) ...

CREATE FUNCTION ANGLE (DECIMAL(12,2)) ...
CREATE FUNCTION ANGLE (DEC(10,7)) ...

Specifying a specific name
for a function: When defining multiple functions with the same
name and schema (with different parameter lists), it is recommended
that a specific name also be specified. The specific name can be used
to uniquely identify the function such as when sourcing on this function,
dropping the function, or commenting on the function. However, the
function cannot be invoked by its specific name.
The specific name is implicitly or explicitly qualified
with a schema name. If a schema name is not specified on CREATE FUNCTION,
it is the same as the explicit or implicit schema name of the function
name (function-name). If a schema name is specified, it must
be the same as the explicit or implicit schema name of the function
name. The name, including the schema name must not identify the specific
name of another function or procedure that exists at the current server.
If a specific name is not specified, it is set to the
function name. If a function or procedure with that specific name
already exists, a unique name is generated similar to the rules used
to generate unique table names.
Extending or overriding a built-in
function:Giving a user-defined function the same name as
a built-in function is not a recommended practice unless the functionality
of the built-in function needs to be extended or overridden.
Extending the functionality of existing built-in functions: Create
the new user-defined function with the same name as the built-in function,
and a unique function signature. For example, a user-defined function
similar to the built-in function ROUND that accepts the distinct type
MONEY as input rather than the built-in numeric types might be necessary.
In this case, the signature for the new user-defined function named
ROUND is different from all the function signatures supported by the
built-in ROUND function.

Overriding a built-in function: Create
the new user-defined function with the same name and signature as
an existing built-in function. The new function has the same name
and data type as the corresponding parameters of the built-in function
but implements different logic. For example, a user-defined function
similar to the built-in function ROUND that uses different rules for
rounding than the built-in ROUND function might be necessary. In this
case, the signature for the new user-defined function named ROUND
will be the same as a signature that is supported by the built-in
ROUND function.
Once a built-in function has been overridden,
if the schema for the new function appears in the SQL path before
the system schemas, the database manager may choose a user-defined
function rather than the built-in function. An application that uses
the unqualified function name and was previously successful using
the built-in function of that name might fail, or perhaps even worse,
appear to run successfully but provide a different result if the user-defined
function is chosen by the database manager rather than the built-in
function.
The DISTINCT keyword can be passed on the invocation
of a user-defined function that is sourced on one of the built-in
aggregate functions. For example, assume that MY_AVG is a user-defined
function that is sourced on the built-in AVG function. The user-defined
function could be invoked with MY_AVG (DISTINCT expression).
This results in the underlying built-in AVG function being invoked
with the DISTINCT keyword.

Special registers in functions: The settings of
the special registers of the invoker are inherited by the function
on invocation and restored upon return to the invoker. Special registers
may be changed in a function that can execute SQL statements, but
these changes do not affect the caller.
Creating a secure function: DB2 treats the SECURED attribute
as an assertion that declares that the user has established an audit
procedure for all changes to the user-defined function. DB2 assume that such an audit control procedure
is in place for all subsequent ALTER FUNCTION statements.
Invoking other user-defined functions in
a secure function: When a secure user-defined function is referenced
in an SQL statement that references a table that is using row access
control or column access control, and if the secure user-defined function
invokes other user-defined functions, the nested user-defined functions
are not validated as secure. If those nested functions
can access sensitive data, a user authorized who has security administrator authority i
needs to ensure that those functions are allowed to access that data
and should ensure that a change control audit procedure has been established
for all changes to those functions.
MODIFIES SQL DATA and EXTERNAL ACTION
functions: If a MODIFIES SQL DATA or EXTERNAL ACTION function
is invoked in other than the outermost select list, the results are
unpredictable since the number of times the function is invoked will
vary depending on the access plan used.
Functions and adopted authority: Fenced
functions run in separate threads. If ALLOW PARALLEL is specified
for a NOT FENCED function, that function may also run in a separate
thread. Functions that run in separate threads will not run under
any adopted authority that might be specified by the invoking application.
Restore considerations: When a function's
associated program or service program is saved and subsequently restored
and the object was updated with the function attributes when the function
was created, the saved attributes will be processed and possibly
changed during the restore.
If the 'Saved library'
(SAVLIB) of the program or service program is different from the 'Restore
to library' (RSTLIB), the function's schema name, specific schema
name, and the external name may be changed as a result of the restore.If the saved function schema name and the library name of the
saved object match, the function schema will be changed to the 'Restore
to library' (RSTLIB). Otherwise, the function schema name is the saved
function schema name.
The specific schema name is always the same as function schema
name.
If the saved EXTERNAL NAME library and the library name of the
saved object match, the EXTERNAL NAME library will be changed to the
'Restore to library' (RSTLIB). Otherwise, the EXTERNAL NAME library
is the saved library name. If the saved EXTERNAL NAME library is *LIBL,
it will not change.

If the same function signature already exists
in the catalog:If the external program name or service program name is the same
as the one that already exists in the catalog, the information in
the catalog for that procedure will be replaced with the saved attributes
(including the specific name).
Otherwise, the saved attributes are not restored, and a warning
(SQL9015) is issued.

If the same specific name already exists
in the catalog, a warning is issued and a new specific name is generated.
Otherwise, the specific name of the function is preserved.

Parent topic: Statements