Data types of result columns

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > subselect > select-clause > select-clause

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > subselect > select-clause

Data types of result columns
Each column of the result of SELECT acquires a data type
from the expression from which it is derived.
When the expression is:
The data type of the result column is:

the name of any numeric column
the same as the data type of the column, with the same precision
and scale for decimal columns.

an integer constant
INTEGER or BIGINT (if the value of the constant is outside
the range of INTEGER, but within the range of BIGINT).

a decimal or floating-point constant
the same as the data type of the constant, with the same precision
and scale for decimal constants.

the name of a DECFLOAT(7) variable
DECFLOAT(16)

the name of any numeric variable
the same as the data type of the variable, with the same precision
and scale for decimal variables. If the data type of the variable
is not identical to an SQL data type (for example, DISPLAY SIGN LEADING
SEPARATE in COBOL), the result column is decimal.

an expression
the same as the data type of the result, with the same precision
and scale for decimal results as described under Expressions.

any function
the data type of the result of the function. For a built-in
function, see Built-in functions to determine
the data type of the result. For a user-defined function, the data
type of the result is what was defined in the CREATE FUNCTION statement
for the function.

the name of any string column
the same as the data type of the column, with the same length
attribute.

the name of any string variable
the same as the data type of the variable, with a length attribute
equal to the length of the variable. If the data type of the variable
is not identical to an SQL data type (for example, a NUL-terminated
string in C), the result column is a varying-length string.

a character-string constant of length n
VARCHAR(n)

a graphic-string constant of length n
VARGRAPHIC(n)

the name of an XML column or variable
XML

the name of a datetime column, or an ILE RPG compiler or an
ILE COBOL compiler datetime host variable
the same as the data type of the column or variable.

the name of a distinct type column
the same as the distinct type of the column, with the same
length, precision, and scale attributes, if any.

the name of a datalink column
a datalink, with the same length attribute.

the name of a row ID column or a row ID variable
ROWID

Parent topic: select-clause