DESCEND

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Definition Specifications > Definition-Specification Keywords > Definition-Specification Keywords

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Definition Specifications > Definition-Specification Keywords

DESCEND

The DESCEND keyword describes the sequence of the data in any of the following:

An array

A table loaded at prerun-time or compile time

A prototyped parameter

See also ASCEND.

Descending sequence means that the array or table entries must start with
the highest data entry (according to the collating sequence) and go to the
lowest. Items with equal value are allowed.

A prerun-time array or table is checked for the specified sequence at the
time the array or table is loaded with data. If the array or table is out
of sequence, control passes to the RPG IV exception/error handling routine.
A run-time array (loaded by input and/or calculation specifications) is not
sequence checked.

If there is insufficient data in the file to load a pre-run array or table,
and the array or table is defined with the DESCEND keyword,
an error with status code 1041 will be issued during the initialization
of the RPG module if the elements at the end of the array have lower values
than the elements loaded from the file.

When ALTSEQ(*EXT) is specified, the alternate collating sequence is used
when checking the sequence of compile-time arrays or tables. If the alternate
sequence is not known until run-time, the sequence is checked at run-time;
if the array or table is out of sequence, control passes to the RPG IV exception/error
handling routine.

A sequence (ascending or descending) must be specified if the LOOKUP operation, %LOOKUPxx built-in, or %TLOOKUPxx built-in is used to search
an array or table for an entry to determine whether the entry is high or low
compared to the search argument.

If the SORTA operation code is used with an array, and no sequence is specified,
an ascending sequence is assumed.

Parent topic: Definition-Specification Keywords