Add Nickname (ADDNCK)

Add Nickname (ADDNCK)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Add Nickname (ADDNCK) command is used to add a nickname to the system distribution directory. The nickname must be unique if it is a public nickname. The nickname must be unique only for the owner if it is a private nickname.

A nickname is a short version of either a directory entry or a distribution list name. More information about nicknames is in the SNA Distribution Services book, SC41-5410.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
NCK | Nickname | Element list | Required, Positional 1
Element 1: Nickname | Character value
Element 2: Access | *PRIVATE, *PUBLIC
USRID | User identifier | Element list | Optional
Element 1: User ID | Character value
Element 2: Address | Character value
LSTID | List identifier | Element list | Optional
Element 1: List ID | Character value
Element 2: List ID qualifier | Character value
TEXT | Nickname description | Character value, *DFT | Optional

Top

Nickname (NCK)

Specifies the nickname to be added and the ability of users to access the nickname.

The possible nickname value is:

nickname
Specify the nickname you are adding.

The possible nickname access values are:

*PRIVATE
The nickname cannot be shared with other users. It can be accessed and changed only by the owner.

*PUBLIC
The nickname can be shared with other users. It can be accessed by any user on the local system, but it can be changed only by a user with security administrator (*SECADM) authority or by the owner.

This is a required parameter.

Top

User identifier (USRID)

Specifies the two-part user identifier for which a user nickname is being added. Both the user ID and address elements must be specified. More information about specifying the user ID and address is in the SNA Distribution Services book, SC41-5410.

Note: This parameter cannot be specified when the LSTID parameter is specified.

The possible user ID value is:

user-ID
Specify the user ID for this nickname. A maximum of 8 characters can be specified.

The Possible user address value is:

user-address
Specify the address for this nickname. A maximum of 8 characters can be specified.

This is a required parameter.

Top

List identifier (LSTID)

Specifies the two-part list identifier of the distribution list for which a list nickname is being added. Both the list identifier and qualifier elements must be specified.

Note: This parameter cannot be specified when the USRID parameter is specified.

The possible list identifier value is:

list-ID
Specify the list identifier (ID) of the distribution list.

The possible list qualifier value is:

list-ID-qualifier
Specify the list ID qualifier of the distribution list.

Note: The distribution list identifier has two parts, the ID and the qualifier, separated by at least one space. If lowercase characters are specified, the system changes them to uppercase.

The naming rules for the two-part list ID are identical to the rules for the user ID and address. A complete description of these rules is in the SNA Distribution Services book, SC41-5410.

This is a required parameter.

Top

Nickname description (TEXT)

Specifies the description of the nickname.

*DFT
The default description is used for the text. The default description is the first description associated with the specified USERID or LISTID parameter.

'nickname-description'
Specify a description to further identify the nickname. A maximum of 50 characters can be specified and must be enclosed in apostrophes.

Top

Examples

ADDNCK NCK(SEC44A *PUBLIC) USRID(XZWS44A RCHAS1)
TEXT('Secretary for Department 44A')

This command adds a public user nickname which is a short version of the User ID and Address XZWS44A&rbl.RCHAS1. If this nickname is unique it is added to the directory.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF8360
Not enough storage for commitment control operation.

CPF8AA1
Library QUSRSYS not completely installed.

CPF905C
Error occurred trying to find a translation table.

CPF9838
User profile storage limit exceeded.

CPF9A89
Nickname function not successful.

Top