Work with License Information (WRKLICINF)

Work with License Information (WRKLICINF)

Last Updated: 2025-04-08

Where allowed to run: All environments (*ALL)

Threadsafe: No | Parameters

Examples

Error messages

The Work with License Information (WRKLICINF) command allows you to show or print specified products or features found on the system which contain license information. When no parameters are specified, a list of all products with license information is shown. This list allows you to change, display, or print the license information, to reset the peak usage information, or to work with the license users of a product or feature.

The QSYS2.LICENSE_INFO view returns similar information.

Restriction: This command is shipped with public *EXCLUDE authority.

Top

Parameters

Keyword | Description | Choices | Notes
PRDID | Product identifier | Character value, *ALL | Optional, Positional 1
OUTPUT | Output | *, *PRINT | Optional, Positional 2

Top

Product identifier (PRDID)

Specifies the 7-character identifier (ID) of the product for which license information is to be displayed.

*ALL
All of the products found on the system which contain license information are displayed.

product-identifier
Specify the seven-character ID of the product for which license information is to be displayed.

generic*-product-identifier
Specify the generic identifier for the products to be displayed. A generic product identifier is specified in the same manner as a generic name.
A generic name is a character string of one or more characters followed by an asterisk (*); for example, ABC*. The asterisk substitutes for any valid characters. A generic name specifies all objects with names that begin with the generic prefix for which the user has authority. If an asterisk is not included with the generic (prefix) name, the system assumes it to be the complete object name.

Top

Output (OUTPUT)

Specifies whether the output from the command is shown at the requesting work station or printed with the job's spooled output.

*
The output requested is shown on the display.

*PRINT
The output is printed with the job's spooled output.

Top

Examples

Example 1: Showing License Information for a Product

WRKLICINF PRDID(1MYPROD)

This command shows product license information on your display station for the product with product identifier 1MYPROD.

Example 2: Printing All License Information

WRKLICINF OUTPUT(*PRINT) PRDID(*ALL)

This command prints, with your job's spooled output, a list of all products on the system which contain license information.

Top

Error messages

*ESCAPE Messages

CPF9E11
License information not retrieved.

CPF9E12
License information not available.

CPF9E24
License user &4 not released.

CPF9E26
&4 license users not released.

Top