Placing a message queue in break mode automatically

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Message queues > Creating or changing a message queue > Creating or changing a message queue

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Message queues > Creating or changing a message queue

Placing a message queue in break mode automatically
By placing a message queue in break mode automatically,
you can monitor the QSYSOPR message queue.
When the system is started, it puts the QSYSOPR message queue
in break delivery when the controlling subsystem is started. However, if
the system operator signs off, the message queue is put in hold delivery.
When the system operator signs on again, QSYSOPR is placed in the mode specified
in the QSYSOPR user profile.
The following procedure in a CL initial
program can be used to place the QSYSOPR message queue in break mode. Initial
programs can use similar procedures to monitor message queues other than the
one specified in a user's own user profile.
Note: By using the code example,
you agree to the terms of the Code license and disclaimer information.
PGM /* Procedure to place a msg queue in break mode */
CHGMSGQ QSYSOPR DLVRY(*BREAK) SEV(50)
MONMSG MSGID(CPF0000) EXEC(SNDPGMMSG MSG('Unable to put QSYSOPR +
message queue in *BREAK mode') TOPGMQ(*EXT))
ENDPGM
The procedure attempts to set the QSYSOPR message queue to
break delivery with a severity level of 50. If this is unsuccessful, a message
is sent to the external job message queue (*EXT). When the program which contains
this procedure ends, the initial menu is displayed. A severity level of 50
is used to decrease the number of break messages that interrupts the workstation
user. A common reason for failure is that another user has QSYSOPR in break
mode already.
You can use the system reply list to specify that the
system issue the reply to specified predefined inquiry messages so that the
display station user does not need to reply.

Parent topic: Creating or changing a message queue

Related tasks
Using the system reply list