DOWHILE command in a CL program or procedure

DOWHILE command in a CL program or procedureLast Updated: 2025-09-29

The Do While (DOWHILE) command lets
you process a group of commands zero or more times while the value
of a logical expression is true.

The DOWHILE command is used to state
a condition that, if true, specifies a command or group of commands
in the program or procedure to run. The group of commands is defined
as those commands between the DOWHILE and the matching End
Do (ENDDO) command.
The stated condition is evaluated
before the group of commands is processed. The group of commands will
never be processed if the stated condition is initially false. If
the condition is false, the DOWHILE group will be exited and processing
will resume with the next command following the associated ENDDO.
If the condition is true, the group will continue processing with
the first command in the group. When the ENDDO command is reached,
control returns to the DOWHILE command to again evaluate the condition.
The logical expression on the COND parameter can be
a single logical variable or constant, or it must describe a relationship
between two or more operands; the expression is then evaluated as
true or false.
The following example is about conditional processing
with a DOWHILE command.

DOWHILE (&LGL)
.
.
.
IF (&INT *EQ 2) (CHGVAR &LGL '0')
ENDDO
When the DOWHILE group is processed, the stated condition
will be evaluated. If the condition is true, the group of commands
in the DOWHILE group is processed. If the condition is false, processing
continues with the command following the associated ENDDO command.
If
the value of &LGL is true, the commands in the DOWHILE group will
be run until &INT is equal to 2 causing the &LGL variable
value to be set to false.
The Leave (LEAVE) command
can be used to exit the DOWHILE group and resume processing following
the ENDDO. The ITERATE command can be used to skip the remaining
commands in the group and evaluate the stated condition immediately.