Tables

TablesLast Updated: 2025-10-07

Tables are logical structures maintained by the
database manager. Tables are made up of columns and rows. There is
no inherent order of the rows within a table. At the intersection
of every column and row is a specific data item called a value.
A column is a set of values of the same type. A row is
a sequence of values such that the nth value
is a value of the nth column of the table.

There
are three types of tables:

A base table is created with the CREATE TABLE statement
and is used to hold persistent user data. For more information see CREATE TABLE. A base table has a name and
may have a different system name. The system name is the name used
by the IBM® i operating
system. Either name is acceptable wherever a table-name is
specified in SQL statements.
A column of a base table has
a name and may have a different system column name. The system column
name is the name used by the IBM i operating system.
Either name is acceptable wherever column-name is specified
in SQL statements. For more information see CREATE TABLE.
A materialized
query table is a base table created with the CREATE TABLE statement
and used to contain data that is derived (materialized) from a select-statement.
A source table is a base table, view, table expression, or user-defined
table function. The select-statement specifies the query that
is used to refresh the data in the materialized query table.
Materialized
query tables can be used to improve the performance of SQL queries.
If the database manager determines that a portion of a query could
be resolved by using the data in a materialized query table, the query
may be rewritten by the database manager to use the materialized query
table. For more information about creating materialized query tables,
see CREATE TABLE.
A temporal
table associates time-based state information with every change
to the data in the table. The database stores the historical rows
(deleted rows or the original values of rows that have been updated)
in a history table so you can query the past state of your
data. For more information about creating temporal tables, see ADD VERSIONING USE HISTORY TABLE history-table-name.
A partitioned table is a table whose data is
contained in one or more local partitions (members). There are two
mechanisms that can be specified to determine into which partition
a specific row will be inserted. Range partitioning allows a user
to specify different ranges of values for each partition. When a row
is inserted, the values specified in the row are compared to the specified
ranges to determine which partition is appropriate. Hash partitioning
allows a user to specify a partitioning key on which a hash algorithm
is used to determine which partition is appropriate. The partitioning
key is a set of one or more columns in a partitioned table that
are used to determine in which partition a row belongs.
A distributed
table is a table whose data is partitioned across a nodegroup.
A nodegroup is an object that provides a logical grouping of
a set of two or more systems. The partitioning key is a set
of one or more columns in a distributed table that are used to determine
on which system a row belongs. For more information about distributed
tables, see the DB2® Multisystem book.

A result table is a set of rows that the database manager
selects or generates from a query. For information on queries, see Queries.

A declared temporary table is created with a DECLARE GLOBAL
TEMPORARY TABLE statement and is used to hold temporary data on behalf
of a single application. This table is dropped implicitly when the
application disconnects from the database.