Variables in CL commands

Variables in CL commandsLast Updated: 2025-10-07

A variable is a named changeable value that
can be accessed or changed by referring to its name.

A CL source program consists of CL commands. Each
command consists of a command name, parameter keyword names, and parameter
values. Parameter values can be expressed as variables, constants,
or expressions. Variables can be used as substitutes for most parameter
values on CL commands. When a CL variable is specified as a parameter
value and the command containing it is run, the value of the variable
is used as the parameter value. Every time the command is run, a different
value can be substituted for the variable. Variables and expressions
can be used as parameter values only in CL procedures and programs.

Variables are not stored in libraries, and they
are not objects. Their values are destroyed when the program or procedure
that contains them is no longer active. The use of variables as values
gives CL programming a special flexibility, because this allows high-level
manipulation of objects whose content can be changed by specific applications.
You might, for instance, write a CL source program to direct the processing
of other programs or the operation of several workstations without
specifying which programs or workstations are to be controlled. The
system identifies these as variables in the CL program or procedure.
You can define (specify) the value of the variables when you run the
CL program or procedure.

In addition to the uses discussed in this topic, variables can
be used to complete the following tasks:

Passing information between procedures and jobs.

Passing information between procedures and device displays.

Conditionally processing commands.

Creating objects. A variable can be used in place of an object
name or library name, or both. The following example shows the Create
Physical File (CRTPF) command used with a specified library
in the first line, and with a variable replacing the library name
in the second line:
CRTPF FILE(DSTPRODLB/&FILE)
CRTPF FILE(&LIB/&FILE)

Variables cannot be used to change a command name or keyword or
to specify a procedure name for the CALLPRC command. Command parameters,
however, can be changed during the processing of a CL procedure through
the use of the prompting function.

It is also possible to assemble the keywords and parameters for
a command and process it using the QCAPCMD API or QCMDEXC API.