Authorization, privileges and object ownership

Authorization, privileges and object ownershipLast Updated: 2025-10-07

Users (identified by an authorization ID) can successfully
execute SQL statements only if they have the authority to perform
the specified function. To create a table, a user must be authorized
to create tables; to alter a table, a user must be authorized to alter
the table; and so forth.

The two forms of authorization are administrative
authority and privileges.

Administrative authorityThe holder of an administrative authority is charged with
the task of managing the relational database and is responsible for
the safety and integrity of the data.
database administrator authority

The database administrator authority provides
a user with the ability to create and manage all objects in a relational
database. Those with database administrator authority implicitly
have all privileges on all objects in the relational database.The security officer and all users with *ALLOBJ authority
have database administrator authority.

security administrator authority

The security administrator authority provides
a user the ability to manage security in a relational database. The security administrator authority possesses
the ability to grant and revoke all relational database privileges
and authorities and transfer ownership of objects. Those with security administrator authority also
manage security policies by enforcing row and column access control
for tables that contain sensitive data. The security administrator authority has
no inherent privilege to access data stored in tables.
Users
with the function usage QIBM_DB_SECADM have security administrator authority.

PrivilegesPrivileges are
those activities that a user is allowed to perform. Authorized users
can create objects, have access to objects they own, and can pass
on privileges on their own objects to other users by using
the GRANT statement. Privileges may be granted to specific users
or to PUBLIC. PUBLIC specifies that a privilege is granted to a set
of users (authorization IDs). The set consists of those users (including
future users) that do not have privately granted privileges on the
table or view. This affects private grants. For example, if SELECT
has been granted to PUBLIC, and UPDATE is then granted to HERNANDZ,
this private grant prevents HERNANDZ from having the SELECT privilege.
The
REVOKE statement can be used to REVOKE previously granted privileges.
A revoke of a privilege from an authorization ID revokes the privilege
granted by all authorization IDs. Revoking a privilege from an authorization
ID will not revoke that same privilege from any other authorization
IDs that were granted the privilege by that authorization ID.

Row permissions and column masksA row
permission expresses an access control rule for a row of a specific
table. A row permission is in the form of a search condition that
describes to which rows users have access. Row permissions are applied
after table privileges (like SELECT or INSERT) are checked.
A column
mask expresses an access control rule for a specific column in
a table. A column mask is in the form of a CASE expression that describes
to which column values users have access. Column masks are applied
after table privileges (like SELECT or INSERT) are checked.
Row permissions and column masks can be created, changed, and dropped only by those with Database
Security Administrator authority by using the CREATE MASK, CREATE PERMISSION, ALTER MASK, ALTER
PERMISSION, and DROP statements. The definition of a permission or a mask can reference other
objects. Those with Database Security Administrator authority do not need additional privileges to
reference those objects, such as SELECT privilege to retrieve from a table or EXECUTE privilege to
invoke a user-defined function, in the definition of the row permission or column mask. Multiple row
permissions and column masks can be created for a table. Only one column mask can be created for
each column in a table. A row permission or a column mask can be created before row or column access
control is enforced for a table. The definition of the row permission and the column mask is stored
in the Db2® catalog. However, the permission and the mask do
not take effect until the ALTER TABLE statement with the ACTIVATE ROW ACCESS CONTROL clause is used
to enforce row access control or the ACTIVATE COLUMN ACCESS CONTROL clause is used to enforce column
access control on the table.
When an ALTER TABLE statement
is used to explicitly activate row access control for a table, a default
row permission is implicitly created for the table which prevents
all access to the table. After row access controls have been activated
for a table, if the table is referenced explicitly in a data change
statement and if multiple row permissions are defined for the table,
a row access control search condition is derived by using the logical
OR operator with the search condition of each defined row permission.
When
an ALTER TABLE statement is used to explicitly activate column access
control for a table, access to the table is not restricted. However,
if the table is referenced in an SQL statement, all column masks that
have been created for the table are applied to mask the column values
that are referenced in the output of the queries or to determine the
column values that are used in the data change statements.
The authorization ID for the SQL statement that references
a table with row permissions or column masks does not need authority
to reference objects that are specified in the definitions of those
row permissions or column masks.

OwnershipWhen an object is created,
the authorization ID of the statement must have the privilege to create
objects in the implicitly or explicitly specified schema. The authorization
ID of a statement has the privilege to create objects in the schema
if:

it is the owner of the schema, or

it has the CREATEIN privilege on the schema.

When
an object is created, one authorization ID is assigned ownership of
the object. Ownership gives the user complete control over the object,
including the privilege to drop the object. The privileges on the
object can be granted by the owner, and can be revoked from the owner.
In this case, the owner may temporarily be unable to perform an operation
that requires that privilege. Because he is the owner, however, he
is always allowed to grant the privilege back to himself.
When
an object is created:

If SQL names were specified, the owner of the object is
the user profile with the same name as the schema into which the object
is created, if a user profile with that name exists. Otherwise, the owner of
the object is the user profile or group user profile of the thread executing the statement.

If system names were specified, the owner of the object
is the user profile or group user profile of the thread executing
the statement.

Authority granted to *PUBLIC on SQL objects depends on the
naming convention that is used at the time of object creation. If
*SYS naming convention is used, *PUBLIC acquires the create authority
(CRTAUT) of the library into which the object was created. If *SQL
naming convention is used, *PUBLIC acquires *EXCLUDE authority.
In
the Authorization sections of this book, it is assumed that the owner
of an object has not had any privileges revoked from that object since
it was initially created. If the object is a view, it is also assumed
that the owner of the view has not had the system authority *READ
revoked from any of the tables or views that this view is directly
or indirectly dependent on. The owner has system authority *READ for
all tables and views referenced in the view definition, and if a view
is referenced, all tables and views referenced in its definition,
and so forth. For more information about authority and privileges,
see Security
Reference.