Conventions and terminology used in the DDS information

Conventions and terminology used in the DDS informationLast Updated: 2025-10-07

The DDS information uses specific phrases and terms to describe
key concepts.

When you read the DDS information in the information center, be aware of
the following conventions:

A keyword is a name that identifies a function.

A parameter is an argument shown between the parentheses on a keyword
that identifies a value or set of values you can use to tailor the function
the keyword specifies.

A value is an actual value that you can use for a parameter.

In the keyword descriptions, this field or this record format means
the field or record format you are defining.

The expression use this file- or record-level keyword means that
the keyword is valid only at the file or record level.

To specify a keyword means to code the keyword in the DDS for a
file. This contrasts with to select a keyword or when a keyword
is in effect, which both mean that any conditioning (such as one or more
option indicators) is satisfied when an application program issues an input
or output operation.

Current source or source you are defining means the DDS
that together make up the description of one file.

In sample displays, character fields are shown as Xs and numeric fields
are shown as Ns.

The 5250 Work Station Feature is a feature of the OS/2 communications
manager that allows the personal computer to perform like a 5250 display station
and use functions of the IBM® i operating
system.

Logical file includes join logical files, simple logical files,
and multiple-format logical files.

Page means to move information up or down on the display. Roll means
the same as page. Paging keys are the same as roll keys. The
PAGEDOWN keyword is the same as the ROLLUP keyword. The PAGEUP keyword is
the same as the ROLLDOWN keyword.

Keyword descriptions use the following punctuation marks to indicate the
syntax for the keyword:
()

Enclosed values are required.

[]

Enclosed values are optional.

[...]

Specify additional values as needed.

{}

The upper value is the default value.

|

Specify the value either to the left or to the
right (can refer to optional values).