Referential constraints

Referential constraintsLast Updated: 2025-10-07

Referential integrity is the state of a database
in which all values of all foreign keys are valid. A foreign key is
a key that is part of the definition of a referential constraint.

A referential constraint is the rule that the values of
the foreign key are valid only if:

They appear as values of a parent key, or

Some component of the foreign key is null.

The base
table containing the parent key is called the parent table of
the referential constraint, and the base table containing the foreign
key is said to be a dependent of that table.

Referential constraints are optional and can be defined in CREATE
TABLE statements and ALTER TABLE statements. Referential constraints
are enforced by the database manager during the execution of INSERT,
UPDATE, and DELETE statements. The enforcement is effectively performed
at the completion of the statement except for delete and update rules
of RESTRICT which are enforced as rows are processed.

Referential constraints with a delete or update rule of RESTRICT
are always enforced before any other referential constraints. Other
referential constraints are enforced in an order independent manner.
That is, the order does not affect the result of the operation. Within
an SQL statement:

A row can be marked for deletion by any number of referential
constraints with a delete rule of CASCADE.

A row can only be updated by one referential constraint with a
delete rule of SET NULL or SET DEFAULT.

A row that was updated by a referential constraint cannot also
be marked for deletion by another referential constraint with a delete
rule of CASCADE.

The
rules of referential integrity involve the following concepts and
terminology:

Parent key

A primary key or unique key of a referential constraint.

Parent row

A row that has at least one dependent row.

Parent table

A base table that is a parent in at least one referential constraint.
A base table can be defined as a parent in an arbitrary number of
referential constraints.

Dependent table

A base table that is a dependent in at least one referential constraint.
A base table can be defined as a dependent in an arbitrary number
of referential constraints. A dependent table can also be a parent
table.

Descendent table

A base table is a descendent of base table T if it is a dependent
of T or a descendent of a dependent of T.

Dependent row

A row that has at least one parent row.

Descendent row

A row is a descendent of row p if it is a dependent of p or a
descendent of a dependent of p.

Referential cycle

A set of referential constraints such that each table in the set
is a descendent of itself.

Self-referencing row

A row that is a parent of itself.

Self-referencing table

A base table that is a parent and a dependent in the same referential
constraint. The constraint is called a self-referencing constraint.

The insert rule of a referential constraint is that a nonnull insert
value of the foreign key must match some value of the parent key of
the parent table. The value of a composite foreign key is null if
any component of the value is null.

The
update rule of a referential constraint is specified when the referential
constraint is defined. The choices are NO ACTION and RESTRICT. The
update rule applies when a row of the parent or dependent table is
updated. The update rule of a referential constraint is that a nonnull
update value of a foreign key must match some value of the parent
key of the parent table. The value of a composite foreign key is treated
as null if any component of the value is null.

The delete rule of a referential constraint is specified when the
referential constraint is defined. The choices are RESTRICT, NO ACTION,
CASCADE, SET NULL or SET DEFAULT. SET NULL can be specified only if
some column of the foreign key allows null values.

The
delete rule of a referential constraint applies when a row of the
parent table is deleted. More precisely, the rule applies when a row
of the parent table is the object of a delete or propagated delete
operation (defined below) and that row has dependents in the dependent
table of the referential constraint. Let P denote the parent table,
let D denote the dependent table, and let p denote a parent row that
is the object of a delete or propagated delete operation. If the delete
rule is:

RESTRICT or NO ACTION, an error is returned and no rows are deleted

CASCADE, the delete operation is propagated to the dependents
of p in D

SET NULL, each nullable column of the foreign key of each dependent
of p in D is set to null

SET DEFAULT, each column of the foreign key of each dependent
of p in D is set to its default value

Each referential constraint in which a table is a parent has its
own delete rule, and all applicable delete rules are used to determine
the result of a delete operation. Thus, a row cannot be deleted if
it has dependents in a referential constraint with a delete rule of
RESTRICT or NO ACTION, or if the deletion cascades to any of its descendants
that are dependents in a referential constraint with the delete rule
of RESTRICT or NO ACTION.

The deletion of a row from parent table P involves other tables
and may affect rows of these tables:

If table D is a dependent of P and the delete rule is RESTRICT
or NO ACTION, D is involved in the operation but is not affected by
the operation.

If D is a dependent of P and the delete rule is SET NULL, D is
involved in the operation, and rows of D may be updated during the
operation.

If D is a dependent of P and the delete rule is SET DEFAULT, D
is involved in the operation, and rows of D may be updated during
the operation.

If D is a dependent of P and the delete rule is CASCADE, D is
involved in the operation and rows of D may be deleted during the
operation. If rows of D are deleted, the delete operation on P
is said to be propagated to D. If D is also a parent table, the actions
described in this list apply, in turn, to the dependents of D.

Any base table that may be involved in a delete operation
on P is said to be delete-connected to P. Thus, a base table
is delete-connected to base table P if it is a dependent of P or a
dependent of a base table to which delete operations from P cascade.

For more information on defining referential constraints, see ALTER TABLE or CREATE TABLE.