Application-directed distributed unit of work

Application-directed distributed unit of workLast Updated: 2025-10-07

The application-directed distributed unit of work facility also
provides for the remote preparation and execution of SQL statements
in the same fashion as remote unit of work. Like remote unit of work,
an activation group at computer system A can connect to an application
server at computer system B and execute any number of static or dynamic
SQL statements that reference objects at B before ending the unit
of work. All objects referenced in a single SQL statement must be
managed by the same application server. However, unlike remote unit
of work, any number of application servers can participate in the
same unit of work. A commit or rollback operation ends the unit of
work.

Distributed unit of work is fully supported for APPC and TCP/IP
connections.

Application-directed distributed unit
of work connection management
At any time:

An activation group is always in the connected or unconnected state
and has a set of zero or more connections. Each connection of an activation
group is uniquely identified by the name of the application server
of the connection.

An SQL connection is always in one of the following states:
Current and
held

Current and
release-pending

Dormant and held

Dormant and release-pending

Initial state of an activation group:
An
activation group is initially in the connected state and has exactly
one connection. The initial state of a connection is current and
held.
The following diagram shows the state transitions:
Figure 1. Application-Directed Distributed Unit of Work
Connection and Activation Group Connection State Transitions

Connection states
If an application process successfully
executes a CONNECT statement:

The current connection is placed in the dormant state and held
state.

The server name is added to the set of connections and the new
connection is placed in the current and held state.

If the server name is already in the set of existing connections
of the activation group, an error is returned.
A connection
in the dormant state is placed in the current state using the SET
CONNECTION statement. When a connection is placed in the current state,
the previous current connection, if any, is placed in the dormant
state. No more than one connection in the set of existing connections
of an activation group can be current at any time. Changing the state
of a connection from current to dormant or from dormant to current
has no effect on its held or release-pending state.
A connection
is placed in the release-pending state by the RELEASE statement. When
an activation group executes a commit operation, every release-pending
connection of the activation group is ended. Changing the state of
a connection from held to release-pending has no effect on its current
or dormant state. Thus, a connection in the release-pending state
can still be used until the next commit operation. There is no way
to change the state of a connection from release-pending to held.

Activation group connection states
A
different application server can be established by the explicit or
implicit execution of a CONNECT statement. The following rules apply:

An activation group cannot have more than one connection to the
same application server at the same time.

When an activation group executes a SET CONNECTION statement,
the specified location name must be an existing connection in the
set of connections of the activation group.

When an activation group executes a CONNECT statement, the specified
server name must not be an existing connection in the set of connections
of the activation group.

If an activation group has a current connection, the
activation group is in the connected state. The CURRENT SERVER
special register contains the name of the application server of the
current connection. The activation group can execute SQL statements
that refer to objects managed by that application server.
An
activation group in the unconnected state enters the connected state
when it successfully executes a CONNECT or SET CONNECTION statement.
If
an activation group does not have a current connection, the activation
group is in the unconnected state. The CURRENT SERVER special
register contents are equal to blanks. The only SQL statements that
can be executed are CONNECT, DISCONNECT, SET CONNECTION, RELEASE,
COMMIT, and ROLLBACK.
An activation group in the connected state
enters the unconnected state when its current connection is intentionally
ended or the execution of an SQL statement is unsuccessful because
of a failure that causes a rollback operation at the current server
and loss of the connection. Connections are intentionally ended when
an activation group successfully executes a commit operation and the
connection is in the release-pending state, or when an application
process successfully executes the DISCONNECT statement.

When a connection is endedWhen a connection
is ended, all resources that were acquired by the activation group
through the connection and all resources that were used to create
and maintain the connection are deallocated. For example, if application
process P has placed the connection to application server X in the
application server state, all cursors of P at X will be closed and
deallocated when the connection is ended during the next commit operation.
A
connection can also be ended as a result of a communications failure
in which case the activation group is placed in the unconnected state.
All connections of an activation group are ended when the activation
group ends.