Example: DDS compiler listing

Example: DDS compiler listingLast Updated: 2025-10-07

This is an example of a data description specifications
(DDS) compiler computer printout.

After data description specifications are written, they
must be put into a source file. Then, database or device files are created
by entering the CL command that starts the data description processor. You
can enter the CL command interactively or in a batch job. The
data description processor retrieves the data description specifications from
the source file designated on the CL command that creates the file, validates
the specifications, and creates a computer printout with any errors and any
referenced specifications, as this example illustrates.

Compiler listing title (appears at top of each output page):

1

The program number, release modification level, and date
of the IBM® i operating
system.

2

The qualified name.

3

The date and time of this run.

4

The page number in the computer printout.

Compiler listing prolog:

5

The type of file and the parameter values specified (or defaults if not
specified) on the CL command that creates the file.

6

The name of the DDS processor.

Compiler listing source:

7

The sequence numbers of lines (records) in the source. Comments are treated
like any other specification line and are given sequence numbers.

8

The source specifications.

9

If an error is found during processing of the DDS and can be traced specifically
to a source specification, the error message identifier and an asterisk indicating
where the error is are printed immediately following the source specification
line. An asterisk is also printed under the sequence number to indicate that
the line contains an error message.

Compiler listing expanded source:

10

Only the valid DDS. This list is what is actually in the file description.
No comments or messages are printed. Default values and referenced values
are printed for the valid DDS.

11

The length and the buffer (input or output) position of each field.

Compiler listing messages:

12

This section contains a list of all messages (general messages and those
already indicated in the source section) encountered during processing of
the DDS. For each message, the message identifier, the severity, the number
of times the message occurred, and the message text are listed.

Compiler listing message summary:

13

The number of messages at each severity level.

14

The final completion message.