DECIMAL or DEC

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

DECIMAL or DEC
The DECIMAL function returns a decimal representation.
Numeric to Decimal
DECIMALDEC(numeric-expression,precision,scale)
String to Decimal
DECIMALDEC(string-expression,precision,scale,decimal-character)
Datetime to Decimal
DECIMALDEC(datetime-expression,precision,scale)
The DECIMAL function returns a decimal representation
of:
A number
A character or graphic string representation of a decimal number
A character or graphic string representation of an integer
A character or graphic string representation of a floating-point
number
A character or graphic string representation of a decimal floating-point
number
A date
A time
A timestamp

Numeric to Decimalnumeric-expression
An expression that returns a value of any built-in numeric data
type.
precision
An integer constant with a value greater than or equal to 1 and
less than or equal to 63. The default for precision depends
on the data type of the numeric-expression:
5 for small integer
11 for large integer
19 for big integer
15 for floating point, decimal, numeric, or nonzero scale binary
31 for decimal floating point

scale
An integer constant that is greater than or equal to 0 and less
than or equal to precision. If not specified,
the default is 0.

The result is the same number that would occur if the
first argument were assigned to a decimal column or variable with
a precision of precision and a scale of scale. An error
is returned if the number of significant decimal digits required to
represent the whole part of the number is greater than precision-scale.
If the first argument can be null, the result can be null; if the
first argument is null, the result is the null value.
String to Decimalstring-expression
An expression that returns a character-string or graphic-string
representation of a number. Leading and trailing blanks are eliminated
and the resulting string must conform to the rules for forming a floating-point,
decimal floating-point, integer, or decimal constant.
precision
An integer constant that is greater than or equal to 1 and less
than or equal to 63. If not specified, the default is 15.
scale
An integer constant that is greater than or equal to 0 and less
than or equal to precision. If not specified,
the default is 0.
decimal-character
Specifies the single-byte character constant that is used to delimit
the decimal digits in string-expression from
the whole part of the number. The character must be a period or comma.
If decimal-character is not specified, the
decimal point is the default decimal separator character. For more
information, see Decimal point.

Datetime to Decimaldatetime-expression
An expression that returns a value of type DATE, TIME, or TIMESTAMP
precision
An integer constant that is greater than or equal to 1 and less
than or equal to 63 that specifies the precision of the result. If
not specified, the default for the precision and scale depends on
the data type of datetime-expression as follows:Precision is 8 and scale is 0 for DATE. The result is a DECIMAL(8,0)
value representing the date as yyyymmdd.
Precision is 6 and scale is 0 for a TIME. The result is a DECIMAL(6,0)
value representing the time as hhmmss.
Precision is 14+tp and scale is tp for a TIMESTAMP(tp).
The result is a DECIMAL(14+tp,tp) value representing
the timestamp as yyyymmddhhmmss.nnnnnnnnnnnn.

scale
An integer constant that is greater than or equal to 0 and less
than or equal to precision. If not specified,
the default is 0.

The result is the same number that would result
from CAST(datetime-expression AS DECIMAL(precision,scale)).
Digits are truncated from the end if the number of digits to the right
of the decimal separator character is greater than scale.
An error is returned if the number of significant digits to the left
of the decimal separator character (the whole part of the number)
in datetime-expression is greater than precision - scale.
The result of the function is a decimal number with precision
of precision and scale of scale.
If the first argument can be null, the result can be null; if the
first argument is null, the result is the null value.
NoteSyntax alternatives: The CAST
specification should be used to increase the portability of applications
when precision is specified. For more information, see CAST specification.
ExamplesUse the DECIMAL function in order to force a DECIMAL data type
(with a precision of 5 and a scale of 2) to be returned in a select-list
for the EDLEVEL column (data type = SMALLINT) in the EMPLOYEE table.
The EMPNO column should also appear in the select list.   SELECT EMPNO, DECIMAL(EDLEVEL,5,2)
    FROM EMPLOYEE

Using the PROJECT table, select all of the starting dates (PRSTDATE)
that have been incremented by a duration that is specified in a host
variable. Assume the host variable PERIOD is of type INTEGER. Then,
in order to use its value as a date duration it must be “cast” as
DECIMAL(8,0).   SELECT PRSTDATE + DECIMAL(:PERIOD,8)
    FROM PROJECT

Assume that updates to the SALARY column are input through a window
as a character string using comma as a decimal character (for example,
the user inputs 21400,50). Once validated by the application, it is
assigned to the host variable newsalary which is defined as CHAR(10).
  UPDATE STAFF
    SET SALARY = DECIMAL(:newsalary, 9, 2, ',')
    WHERE ID = :empid
The value
of SALARY becomes 21400.50.

Parent topic: Scalar functions