DELETE (Delete Record)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes > Operation Codes

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes

DELETE (Delete Record)

Free-Form Syntax

DELETE{(EHMR)} {search-arg} name

Code

Factor 1

Factor 2

Result Field

Indicators

DELETE (E)

search-arg

name (file
or record format)

 

NR

ER

_

The DELETE operation deletes a record from a database file. The
file must be an delete-capable file (identified by specifying *DELETE
in the USAGE keyword of a free-form definition, or by
a U in position
17 of a fixed-form file description specification).
The deleted record
can never be retrieved.

If a search argument (search-arg) is not
specified, the DELETE operation deletes the current record (the last
record retrieved). The record must have been locked by a previous
input operation (for example, CHAIN or READ).

The search argument, search-arg, must be the
key or relative record number used to retrieve the record to be deleted.
If access is by key, search-arg can be a single key in the
form of a field name, a named constant, a figurative constant, or
a literal.

If the file is an externally-described file, search-arg can
also be a composite key in the form of a KLIST name, a list of values,
or %KDS. Graphic and UCS-2 key fields must have the same CCSID as
the key in the file. For an example of %KDS, see the example at the
end of %KDS (Search Arguments in Data Structure). If access is by relative record number, search-arg must
be an integer literal or a numeric field with zero decimal positions.
For an example of using a list of values to search for the record
to be deleted, see Figure 2.

See *STRICTKEYS
for information about the effect Control keyword EXPROPTS(*STRICTKEYS)
has on the rules for specifying keys with a list of values or %KDS.

The name operand must be the name of the update
file or a record format in the file from which a record is to be deleted.
A record format name is valid only with an externally described file.
If search-arg is not specified, the record format
name must be the name of the last record read from the file; otherwise,
an error occurs.

If search-arg is specified, positions 71
and 72 can contain an indicator that is set on if the record to be
deleted is not found in the file. If search-arg is
not specified, leave these positions blank. This information can also
be obtained from the %FOUND built-in function, which returns '0' if
no record is found, and '1' if a record is found.

To handle DELETE exceptions (file status codes greater
than 1000), either the operation code extender 'E' or an error indicator
ER can be specified, but not both. For more information on error handling,
see File Exception/Errors.

Under the IBM® i operating system, if a read operation is done
on the file specified in file-name after a successful
DELETE operation to that file, the next record after the deleted record
is obtained.

See Database Null Value Support for information on handling records with
null-capable fields and keys.

For more information, see File Operations.

Note:
Operation code extenders H, M, and R are allowed
only when the search argument is a list or is %KDS().
See Keys for File Operations
and Ensuring Accuracy.

Leave positions 75 and 76 blank.

Parent topic: Operation Codes