Free-Form Subfield Definition

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Definition Specifications > Free-Form Definition Statement > Free-Form Definition Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Definition Specifications > Free-Form Definition Statement

Free-Form Subfield Definition

A free-form subfield definition begins with the subfield name,
or it begins with the
DCL-SUBF or DCL-DS operation code followed by the subfield name.

The DCL-SUBF operation code must be specified if the subfield name
is the same as an operation code allowed
in free-format calculations.
See Table 1.

The DCL-DS operation code is used to define a nested
data structure subfield.

The subfield name is followed by keywords, and finally a semicolon.

Program-described subfield

Specify *N for the subfield name
if the subfield does not have a name.

If a data-type
keyword is specified, it must be the first keyword.

If the subfield is a predefined subfield in
the Program Status Data Structure
or a File Information Data Structure,
specify the subfield reserved word in place of the
data type keyword.

In a free-form definition, the OVERLAY keyword can only be
used to overlay one subfield on another subfield.
If you don't want the subfield
to be placed at the next available position
in the data structure,
use the POS
keyword to specify the starting position.

Subfield in an externally-described data structure

The first keyword for an externally-described subfield
must be the EXTFLD keyword.
If the subfield name is the same as the external name of
the subfield, the parameter of the EXTFLD keyword
may be omitted.

Nested data structure subfield

You can define a data structure as a nested data structure subfield
if the parent data structure is defined in free-form syntax and is qualified.
The nested data structure subfield must also be defined in free-form syntax.

A nested data structure subfield is automatically qualified.
In the following example, subfield address is defined
as a nested data structure subfield. It begins with a DCL-DS statement (1),
followed by subfields, followed by an END-DS statement (2).
The subfields of the address subfield are qualified by person.address
(3).

DCL-DS person QUALIFIED;
name VARCHAR(25);
DCL-DS address; 1
num int(5);
street VARCHAR(25);
city VARCHAR(25);
province VARCHAR(25);
postcode VARCHAR(6);
END-DS address; 2
age int(5);
END-DS person;

person.address.street = 'Elm Ave.'; 3

A nested data structure can be an array.
In the following example, subfield person is defined
as a nested data structure array subfield (1) in data structure family,
and subfield pets (2) is
another array that is nested within subfield person.
The subfields of the pets subfield are qualified by family.person(index).pets(index)
(3).

DCL-DS family QUALIFIED;
num int(5);
DCL-DS person DIM(10); 1
name VARCHAR(25);
age int(5);
numPets int(5);
DCL-DS pets DIM(5); 2
name VARCHAR(25);
type VARCHAR(25);
END-DS pets;
END-DS persom;
END-DS;

family.person(1).numPets = 1;
family.person(1).pets(1).type = 'fish'; 3

Subfield examples

See Free-Form Data Structure Definition
for examples of free-form subfield definitions.

Equivalent Free-form Coding for Subfield Entries

Parent topic: Free-Form Definition Statement