Field name

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Define physical and logical files using DDS > Positional entries for physical and logical files (positions 1 through 44) > Name for physical and logical files (positions 19 through 28)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Define physical and logical files using DDS > Positional entries for physical and logical files (positions 1 through 44) > Name for physical and logical files (positions 19 through 28)

Field name

When position 17 is left blank, the name specified in positions
19 through 28 is a field name.

You cannot specify field names if you specify the FORMAT keyword.

Physical files require that each field be named. These names must be unique
within the record format. The field names appear in the physical buffer in
the same order as they are specified in the DDS.

If you are describing a simple or multiple format logical file, you can
use the record format as it exists in the physical file on which this logical
file is based, and you do not need to specify field names.

If you do not use the record format as it exists in the physical file,
you must name each field specified in a logical file. In a simple or multiple
format logical file, each field name must be unique within the record format
and must correspond to a field in the physical file record format. The field
name order is the order in which the fields appear to programs using the logical
file.

The name you give to a field in a logical file record format is typically
the same as the corresponding field name in the physical file record format.
If different, the two names must be equated by using the RENAME keyword. A
field in a logical file record format can also represent the concatenation
of two or more fields from the physical file. The SST keyword can also be
used to describe a substring of a field from the physical file in the logical
file format. Note: The sequence in which the field names are specified in
the logical file is important. If the same physical field is specified more
than once in a record format in the logical file (by using either RENAME or
CONCAT), the sequence in which the fields are specified in the logical file
is the sequence that the data is moved to the physical file. Thus, the value
of the field specified in the logical file the last time is the value in the
physical record.