WAITFILE parameter

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters > Commonly used parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters

WAITFILE parameter
The WAITFILE parameter allows you to specify whether and how long
a program waits for resources.
You use the WAITFILE parameter to specify the maximum number of
seconds that a program waits for the following:
File resources to be allocated when the file is opened
Session resources when the evoke function is issued for an APPC device
The device to be allocated when an acquire operation is performed to read
the file

If the program must wait, it will be placed in a wait state until
the resources are available or until the wait time expires. If two or more
file resources are needed and are not available because they are being used
by different system users, the acquisition of each resource might require
a wait. This maximum is applied to each wait.
The length of the wait
can be specified in this parameter, or the default wait time of the class
that applies to the object can be used. If the file resources cannot be allocated
in the specified number of seconds, an error message is returned to the program.
The
file resources that must be allocated depend on the type of file being opened.
File resources consist of the following.
For device files that are not spooled (SPOOL(*NO)), the file resources
include the file description and device description. Because the device description
must be allocated, the device itself must also be available.
For device files that are spooled (SPOOL(*YES)), the file resources include
the file description, the specified output queue, and storage in the system
for the spooled data. Because the data is spooled, the device description
(and thus the device itself) need not be available.
For database files, the file resources consist of the file and member
data. The file's associated member paths are not accessed, and therefore,
the system does not wait for them. A file open exception error can occur before
the WAITFILE time has expired when an access path is not available (for example,
when the access path is being rebuilt). The Allocate Object (ALCOBJ) command
can be used to allocate specific file resources before the file is opened.

The session resources that were allocated for an APPC device conversation
can be lost between the time the application issues a detach function or receives
a detach indication and the time another evoke function is issued. If the
session resource is lost, this parameter is used to determine the length of
time that the system waits for another session resource.

Values allowed*IMMED
The program does not wait; when the file is opened, an immediate allocation
of the file resources is required.
*CLS
The default wait time specified in the class description is used as the
wait time for the file resources to be allocated.
1-32767
Specify the number of seconds that the program waits for the file resources
to be allocated.

Parent topic: Commonly used parameters