DataLink assignments

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Assignments and comparisons > Assignments and comparisons

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Assignments and comparisons

DataLink assignments
The assignment of a value to a DataLink column results
in the establishment of a link to a file unless the linkage attributes
of the value are empty or the column is defined with NO LINK CONTROL.
In cases where a linked value already exists in the column, that file
is unlinked. Assigning a null value where a linked value already exists
also unlinks the file associated with the old value.
If the application provides the same data location as
already exists in the column, the link is retained. There are two
reasons that this might be done:
the comment is being changed
if the table is placed in link pending state, the links in the
table can be reinstated by providing linkage attributes identical
to the ones in the column.

A DataLink value may be assigned to a column by using
the DLVALUE scalar function. The DLVALUE scalar function creates a
new DataLink value which can then be assigned a column. Unless the
value contains only a comment or the URL is exactly the same, the
act of assignment will link the file.
When assigning a value to a DataLink column, the following
error conditions can occur:
Data Location (URL) format is invalid
File server is not registered with this database
Invalid link type specified
Invalid length of comment or URL Note that the size of a URL
parameter or function result is the same on both input or output and
is bound by the length of the DataLink column. However, in some cases
the URL value returned has an access token attached. In situations
where this is possible, the output location must have sufficient storage
space for the access token and the length of the DataLink column.
Hence, the actual length of the comment and URL in its fully expanded
form provided on input should be restricted to accommodate the output
storage space. If the restricted length is exceeded, this error is
raised.

When the assignment is also creating a link, the following
errors can occur:
File server not currently available.
File does not exist.
Referenced file cannot be accessed for linking.
File already linked to another column. Note that this error
will be raised even if the link is to a different relational database.

In addition, when the assignment removes an existing link,
the following errors can occur:
File server not currently available.
File with referential integrity control is not in a correct state
according to the DB2® DataLinks
File Manager.

A DataLink value may be retrieved from the database through
the use of scalar functions (such as DLLINKTYPE and DLURLPATH). The
results of these scalar functions can then be assigned to variables.
Note that usually no attempt is made to access the file
server at retrieval time. 1It
is therefore possible that subsequent attempts to access the file
server through file system commands might fail.
A warning may be returned when retrieving a DataLink value
because the table is in link pending state.

Parent topic: Assignments and comparisons

1 It may be necessary to access the file
server to determine the prefix name associated with a path. This can
be changed at the file server when the mount point of a file system
is moved. First access of a file on a server will cause the required
values to be retrieved from the file server and cached at the database
server for the subsequent retrieval of DataLink values for that file
server. An error is returned if the file server cannot be accessed.