CORRELATION

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Aggregate functions > Aggregate functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Aggregate functions

CORRELATION
The CORRELATION function returns the coefficient of correlation
of a set of number pairs.
CORRELATION(expression1,expression2)
expression1
An expression that returns a value of any built-in numeric, character-string,
or graphic-string data type. If the argument is a character-string
or graphic-string, it is cast to DECFLOAT(34) before evaluating the
function.
expression2
An expression that returns a value of any built-in numeric, character-string,
or graphic-string data type. If the argument is a character-string
or graphic-string, it is cast to DECFLOAT(34) before evaluating the
function.

If either argument is decimal floating-point, the result
of the function is DECFLOAT(34). Otherwise, the result of the function
is a double precision floating-point number. The result can be null.
When not null, the result is between -1 and 1.
The function is applied to the set of (expression1, expression2)
pairs derived from the argument values by the elimination of all pairs
for which either expression1 or expression2 is null.
If the function is applied to an empty set, or if either
STDDEV(expression1) or STDDEV(expression2) is equal
to zero, the result is a null value. Otherwise, the result is the
correlation coefficient for the value pairs in the set. The result
is equivalent to the following: Let sdexp1 be the result of STDDEV(expression1) and let
sdexp2 be the result of STDDEV(expression2).
The result of CORRELATION(expression1, expression2)
is:COVARIANCE(expression1, expression2) / (sdexp1 * sdexp2)

The order in which the values are aggregated is undefined, but
every intermediate result must be within the range of the result data
type.
NoteSyntax alternatives: CORR can
be specified as a synonym for CORRELATION.
ExampleUsing the EMPLOYEE table, set the host variable CORRLN to the
correlation between the salary and the bonus for those employees in
department 'A00'. SELECT CORRELATION(SALARY, BONUS)
INTO :CORRLN
FROM EMPLOYEE
WHERE WORKDEPT = ‘A00’;
CORRLN is
set to 0.9760236077658643 when using the sample table.

Parent topic: Aggregate functions