Graphic-string constants

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Constants > Constants

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Constants

Graphic-string constants
There are two types of graphic-string constants: DBCS and
Unicode graphic-string constants.
DBCS graphic-string constantsA graphic-string
constant is a varying-length graphic string. The length of the
specified string cannot be greater than 16370. The forms of DBCS graphic-string
constants are:

In the normal form, the SQL delimiters and the G is an
SBCS character. The SBCS ' is the EBCDIC apostrophe, X'7D'.
In the PL/I form, the apostrophes and the G are DBCS characters.
Two consecutive DBCS string delimiters are used to represent one string
delimiter within the string. Note that this PL/I form is only valid
for static statements embedded in PL/I programs.
A hexadecimal DBCS graphic constant is also supported.
The form of the hexadecimal DBCS graphic constant is:
GX'ssss'
In
this constant, ssss represents a string from
0 to 32760 hexadecimal digits. The number of characters between the
string delimiters must be an even multiple of 4. Blanks between the
string delimiters are ignored. Each group of 4 digits represents a
single DBCS graphic character. The hexadecimal for shift-in and shift-out
('0E'X and '0F'X) are not included in the string.
The CCSID assigned to constants is the DBCS CCSID associated
with the CCSID of the source unless the source is encoded in a foreign
encoding scheme (such as ASCII). In this case, the CCSID assigned
to the constant is the DBCS CCSID associated with the default CCSID
of the current server when the SQL statement containing the constant
is prepared. If there is no DBCS CCSID associated with the CCSID of
the source, the CCSID is 65535.
For information about associated DBCS CCSIDs, see the Use DBCS CCSIDs topic in the IBM® i
Information Center. For information about the CCSID of the source, see
Character String Constants.
Unicode graphic-string constantsThere
are two types of Unicode graphic-string constants: N and UX. The form
of the Unicode graphic constant is:
N'ssss'
In the constant, ssss is
a string of 16370 characters. The characters are converted from the
source CCSID to the Unicode CCSID during processing.
The form
of the hexadecimal Unicode graphic constant is:
UX'ssss'
In
the constant, ssss represents a string from
0 to 32760 hexadecimal digits. The number of characters between the
string delimiters must be an even multiple of 4. Blanks between the
string delimiters are ignored. Each group of 4 or more digits represents
a single Unicode graphic character.
The CCSID of a Unicode graphic-string
constant is 13488 (UCS-2). If the standards option is specified, the
CCSID is 1200 (UTF-16). For information about the standards option,
see Standards compliance.

Parent topic: Constants