STATIC{(*ALLTHREAD)}

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Definition Specifications > Definition-Specification Keywords > Definition-Specification Keywords

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Definition Specifications > Definition-Specification Keywords

STATIC{(*ALLTHREAD)}

The STATIC keyword is used:

To specify that a local variable is stored in static storage

To specify that the same copy of a static variable will be
available to all threads in a multithreaded environment

To specify that a Java™ method is defined as a static method.

For a local variable of a subprocedure, the STATIC keyword specifies that the data item is to be stored in
static storage, and thereby hold its value across calls to the procedure in
which it is defined. The keyword can only be used within a subprocedure. All
global fields are static.

The data item is initialized when the program or service program it is
contained in is first activated. It is not reinitialized
again, even if reinitialization occurs for global definitions as part of normal
cycle processing.

If STATIC is not specified, then any locally defined data item is stored
in automatic storage. Data stored in automatic storage is initialized at the
beginning of every call. When a procedure is called recursively, each invocation
gets its own copy of the storage.

For any variable in a module where THREAD(*CONCURRENT)
is specified on the Control specification, STATIC(*ALLTHREAD) specifies
that the same instance of a static variable will be used by all threads. If
*ALLTHREAD is not specified for a static variable in a thread-concurrent module,
then the variable will be in thread-local storage, meaning that each thread
will have its own instance of the variable.

If you have a copy file that may be copied into source
with or without the THREAD(*CONCURRENT) keyword, you can check for the
predefined condition *THREAD_CONCURRENT to control whether to
include the STATIC(*ALLTHREAD) keyword.
See Conditions Relating to Control Specification Keywords for more information.

The following rules apply to the use of the STATIC(*ALLTHREAD) keyword:

STATIC(*ALLTHREAD) is not allowed unless THREAD(*CONCURRENT) is specified
on the Control specification.

The STATIC keyword is implied for global variables. The STATIC keyword
cannot be specified for a global variable unless *ALLTHREAD is specified as
a parameter.

A variable defined with STATIC(*ALLTHREAD) cannot be initialized to the
address of variables which are not also defined with STATIC(*ALLTHREAD).

CAUTION:It is up to you to ensure that a static
variable used in all threads is handled in a thread-safe manner. See the "Multithreading
Considerations" section in the Rational® Development Studio for i: ILE RPG Programmer's Guide, and .

Tip: It is a good idea to have a naming convention
for your all-thread static variables to alert maintenance programmers and
code reviewers that the variables need special handling. For example, you
could add the prefix ATS_ to all your variable names that are defined with
STATIC(*ALLTHREAD).

For a Java method, the STATIC keyword
specifies that the method is defined as static. If STATIC is not specified,
the method is assumed to be an instance method. You must code the STATIC keyword
for your prototype if and only if the Java method has the "static" attribute.
The *ALLTHREAD parameter is not allowed when the STATIC keyword is specified
for a prototype.

Additional Considerations for STATIC(*ALLTHREAD)

Parent topic: Definition-Specification Keywords