Data type (position 35)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > Double-byte character set considerations for DDS > Positional entry considerations for display files that use DBCS

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > Double-byte character set considerations for DDS > Positional entry considerations for display files that use DBCS

Data type (position 35)

You can specify the data type in this position by typing J, E,
O, G.

J (Only)

Type J to specify this field as a DBCS-only field. The display station
automatically inserts shift-control characters in fields specified with this
data type.
If you specify J, you must specify an even number for the
field length (positions 30 through 34).

E (Either)

Type E to specify this field as a DBCS-either field. You can type either
DBCS or alphanumeric characters in the field. The type of data typed in the
first position of the field determines the type of data that can be typed
in the remainder of the field. If the field is empty, the system assumes that
alphanumeric data will be typed in. To change the field so DBCS data can be
typed, position the cursor in the field and put the keyboard in DBCS mode.
If
the field contains DBCS data, the display station automatically inserts shift-control
characters.
If you specify E, you must specify an even number for the
field length (positions 30 through 34).

O (Open)

Type O to specify this field as a DBCS-open field. You can type both DBCS
and alphanumeric characters in this field. Use shift-control characters to
distinguish DBCS data from alphanumeric data. If the field contains DBCS
data, the system does not ensure that the data is enclosed between shift-control
characters.
If you specify O, you can specify either an even or an odd
number for the field length (positions 30 through 34).

G (Graphic)

Type G to specify this field as a DBCS-graphic field. Data typed in this
field does not contain shift-control characters. If you specify G, you
must specify the number of DBCS characters for the field length (positions
30 through 34).