RRN

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

RRN
The RRN function returns the relative record number of
a row.
RRN(table-designator)
table-designator
A
table designator that could be used to qualify a column in the
same relative location in the SQL statement as the RRN function.
For more information about table designators, see Table designators. In SQL naming, the table name may
be qualified. In system naming, the table name cannot be qualified.
The table-designator must not identify a collection-derived-table, a VALUES clause, a table-function, or a data-change-table-reference.
If
the argument identifies a view, common table expression, or nested
table expression, the function returns the relative record number
of its base table. If the argument identifies a view, common table
expression, or nested table expression derived from more than one
base table, the function returns the relative record number of the
first table in the outer subselect of the view, common table expression,
or nested table expression.
If the argument identifies a distributed
table, the function returns the relative record number of the row
on the node where the row is located. If the argument identifies a
partitioned table, the function returns the relative record number
of the row in the partition where the row is located. This means that
RRN will not be unique for each row of a partitioned or distributed
table.
The argument must not identify a view, common table expression,
or nested table expression whose outer fullselect includes an aggregate
function, a GROUP BY clause, a HAVING clause, a UNION, INTERSECT, or EXCEPT clause, a DISTINCT clause, a VALUES clause,
or a table-function. The RRN function cannot be specified in
a SELECT clause if the fullselect contains an aggregate function,
a GROUP BY clause, or a HAVING clause.

The data type of the result is a decimal with precision
15 and scale 0. The result can be null.
ExampleReturn the relative record number and employee name from table
EMPLOYEE for those employees in department 20.   SELECT RRN(EMPLOYEE), LASTNAME
    FROM EMPLOYEE
    WHERE DEPTNO = 20

Parent topic: Scalar functions