ENBPFRCOL(a)

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Appendixes > Appendix G. PROCESS Statement > option-1 > option-1 > IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Appendixes > Appendix G. PROCESS Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Appendixes > Appendix G. PROCESS Statement > option-1

ENBPFRCOL(a)
Specifies whether performance measurement code should be generated in the
module or program. The data collected can be used by the system performance
tool to profile an application's performance. Generating the addition of the
performance measurement code in a compiled module or program will result in
slightly larger objects and may affect performance.
PEP indicates that performance statistics
are gathered on the entry and exit of the program entry procedure only. Choose
this value when you want to gather overall performance information for an
application. This support is equivalent to the support formally provided with
the TPST tool. This is the default.
ENTRYEXIT indicates that performance statistics
are gathered on the entry and exit of all the procedures of the program. This
includes the program PEP routine.
This choice would be useful if you want
to capture information on all routines. Use this option when you know that
all the programs called by your application were compiled with either the
PEP, ENTRYEXIT or FULL option. Otherwise, if your application calls other
programs that are not enabled for performance measurement, the performance
tool will charge their use of resources against your application. This would
make it difficult for you to determine where resources are actually being
used.

FULL indicates that performance statistics are gathered
on the entry and exit of all procedures. Also statistics are gathered before
and after each call to an external procedure.
Use this option when you
think that your application will call other programs that were not compiled
with either PEP, ENTRYEXIT or FULL. This option allows the performance tools
to distinguish between resources that are used by your application and those
used by programs it calls (even if those programs are not enabled for performance
measurement). This option is the most expensive but allows for selectively
analyzing various programs in an application.

Parent topic: option-1

DATTIM(a b)

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Appendixes > Appendix G. PROCESS Statement > option-1

DATTIM(a b)
Sometimes you may not be able to avoid moving dates between 4-digit and
2-digit years, and you know that inaccuracy will result based on the default
windowing algorithm that ILE COBOL uses. You can use the DATTIM process statement
option to change the default date window. DATTIM takes the form:
DATTIM(a b)
where a is the 4-digit base
century and b is the 2-digit
base year.
4-digit base century must be the first argument.
It defines the base century that ILE COBOL uses for its windowing algorithm.
If the DATTIM process statement option is not specified, 1900 is used.
The 4-digit-base-century also affects the interpretation of the @C conversion
specifier. The @C conversion specifier represents a 1-digit century,
whose value ranges between 0 and 9. A 0 for a 1-digit century represents a
base century of 1900, 1 = 2000, … 9 = 2800. So, a date data item
whose format is @C/%y/%m and whose value is 1/12/05,
represents year 2012, the first day of month 5 (May). However, 0 of @C is
really equal to the 4-digit base century. Thus, a DATTIM(2200, 40) would cause
0 = 2200, 1 = 2300 …, 9 = 3100.

2-digit base year must be the second argument.
It defines the base year that ILE COBOL uses for its windowing algorithm. If
the DATTIM process statement option is not specified, 40 is used.

Parent topic: option-1