QCMDCHK program

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Command-related APIs > Command-related APIs

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Command-related APIs

QCMDCHK program
The Check Command Syntax (QCMDCHK) API is an
IBM-supplied program that performs syntax checking for a single command, and
optionally prompts for the command.
The command is not run. If prompting is requested, the command
string is returned to the calling procedure or program with the updated values
as entered through prompting. The QCMDCHK program can be called from a CL
procedure or program or an HLL procedure or program.
Typical uses of
QCMDCHK are:
Prompt the user for a command and then store the command for later processing.
Determine the options the user specified.
Log the processed command. First, prompt with QCMDCHK, run with QCMDEXC,
and then log the processed command.

The format of the call to QCMDCHK is:
CALL PGM(QCMDCHK) PARM(command command-length)
The first parameter passed to QCMDCHK is a character string
containing the command to be checked or prompted. If the first parameter
is a variable and prompting is requested, the command entered by the workstation
user is placed in the variable.
The second parameter is the maximum
length of the command string being passed. If the command string is passed
as a quoted string, the command length is exactly the length of the quoted
string. If the command string is passed in a variable, the command length
is the length of the CL variable. The second parameter must be a packed decimal
value of length 15 with 5 decimal positions.
The QCMDCHK program performs
syntax checking on the command string which is passed to it. It verifies
that all required parameters are coded, and that all parameters have allowable
values. It does not check for the processing environment. That is, a command
can be checked whether it is allowed in batch only, interactive only, or only
in a batch or interactive CL program. QCMDCHK does not allow checking of
command definition statements.
If a syntax error is detected on the
command, message CPF0006 is sent. You can monitor for this message to determine
if an error occurred on the command. Message CPF0006 is preceded by one or
more diagnostic messages that identify the error. In the following example,
control is passed to the label ERROR within the program, because the value
123 is not valid for the PGM parameter of the Create CL Program (CRTCLPGM) command.

CALL QCMDCHK ('CRTCLPGM PGM(QGPL/123)' 22)
MONMSG CPF0006 EXEC(GOTO ERROR)
You can request prompting for the command by either placing
a question mark before the command name or by placing selective prompt characters
before one or more keyword names in the command string.
If no errors
are detected during checking and prompting for the command, the updated command
string is placed in the variable specified for the first parameter. The prompt
request characters are removed from the command string. This is shown in
the following example:
DCL &CMD *CHAR 2000
.
.
CHGVAR &CMD '?CRTCLPGM'
CALL QCMDCHK (&CMD 2000)
After the call to the QCMDCHK program is run, variable &CMD
contains the command string with all values entered through the prompter.
This might be something like:
CRTCLPGM PGM(PGMA) SRCFILE(TESTLIB/SOURCE) USRPRF(*OWNER)
Note that the question mark preceding the command name is removed.
When
prompting is requested through the QCMDCHK program, the command string should
be passed in a CL variable. Otherwise, the updated command string is not
returned to your procedure or program. You must also be sure that the variable
for the command string is long enough to contain the updated command string
which is returned from the prompter. If it is not long enough, message CPF0005
is sent, and the variable containing the command string is not changed. Without
selective prompting, the prompter only returns entries that were typed by
the user.
The length of the variable is determined by the value of the
second parameter, and not the actual length of the variable. In the following
example, escape message CPF0005 is sent because the specified length is too
short to contain the updated command, even though the variable was declared
with an adequate length.
DCL &CMD *CHAR 2000
.
.
CHGVAR &CMD '?CRTCLPGM'
CALL QCMDCHK (&CMD 9)
If you press F3 or F12 to exit from the prompter while running
QCMDCHK, message CPF6801 is sent to the procedure or program that called QCMDCHK,
and the variable containing the command string is not changed.
If PASSATR(*YES)
is specified on the PARM, ELEM, or QUAL command definition statement, and
the default value is changed using the Change Command Definition
(CHGCMDDFT) command, the default value is highlighted as though
this was a user-specified value and not a default value. If a default value
of a changed PARM, ELEM, or QUAL command definition statement is changed back
to its original default value, the default value will no longer be highlighted.

Parent topic: Command-related APIs

Related tasks
Using selective prompting for CL commands

Related information
Check Command Syntax (QCMDCHK) API