ALTER MASK

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

ALTER MASK
The ALTER MASK statement alters a column mask that exists
at the current server.
InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared.
AuthorizationThe authorization ID of the
statement must have security administrator authority. See Administrative authority.
Syntax ALTER MASKmask-nameENABLEDISABLEREGENERATE
Description mask-name
Identifies
the column mask to be altered. It must identify a column mask that
exists at the current server.
ENABLE, DISABLE, or REGENERATE
ENABLE
Specifies that the column mask is to be enabled for column access
control. If column access control is not currently activated for the
table, the column mask will become effective when column access control
is activated for the table. If column access control is currently
activated for the table, the column mask becomes effective immediately.
A column mask that gets an error when trying to be enabled cannot
be enabled until any errors in the mask definition are resolved. This
may require the column mask to be dropped and recreated with a modified
definition.
ENABLE is ignored if the column mask is already defined as enabled
for column access control.
DISABLE
Specifies that the column mask is to be disabled for column access
control. If column access control is not currently activated for the
table, the column mask will remain ineffective when column access
control is activated for the table. If column access control is currently
activated for the table, the column mask becomes ineffective.
DISABLE is ignored if the column mask is already defined as disabled
for column access control.
REGENERATE
Specifies that the column mask is to be regenerated. The column
mask definition in the catalog is used and existing dependencies and
authorizations, if any, are retained. The column mask definition is
reevaluated as if the column mask were being created. The user-defined
functions that are referenced in the column mask definition must be
resolved to the same secure UDFs as were resolved during the column
mask creation.

ExamplesExample 1: Enable column
mask M1.
ALTER MASK M1 ENABLE
Example
2: Disable column mask M1.
ALTER MASK M1 DISABLE
Example
3: Regenerate column mask M1.
ALTER MASK M1 REGENERATE

Parent topic: Statements