Levels of Data in a Record Description Entry

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division Overview > Data Relationships > Levels of Data > Levels of Data

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division Overview > Data Relationships > Levels of Data

Levels of Data in a Record Description Entry
Each group and elementary item in a record requires a separate entry, and
each must be assigned a level-number.
A level-number is a 1- or 2-digit integer between 01 and 49, or one of
three special level-numbers: 66, 77, or 88. The following level-numbers are used to structure records:
01
This level-number specifies the record itself, and is the most inclusive
level-number possible. A level-01 entry may be either a group item or an elementary
item. It must begin in Area A. Type-names (defined using the TYPEDEF clause) must be level-01
items.
02-49
These level-numbers specify group and elementary items within a record.
They may begin in Area A or Area B. Less inclusive data items are assigned
higher (not necessarily consecutive) level-numbers in this series.

A group item includes all group and elementary items following it, until
a level-number less than or equal to the level-number of this group is encountered.
All elementary or group items immediately subordinate to one group item
must be assigned identical level-numbers higher than the level-number of this
group item.
If a type-name
is a group item, and it is used in a TYPE clause to define a new data item,
then the new data item will have subordinate items of the same name, description,
and hierarchy as those of the type-name. There is no limit to the number of
levels that can result because:
The subject of a TYPE clause may have a level number as high as 49, and
a type-name may describe a group item with as many levels as 49
Type declarations may reference other type declarations.

Related Information:
Coding Example
Conceptual Example.

Parent topic: Levels of Data