Reference for ICF files (position 29)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS Reference: ICF Files > Define an ICF file using DDS

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS Reference: ICF Files > Define an ICF file using DDS

Reference for ICF files (position 29)

You specify an R in this position to use the
reference function of the program. This function copies the attributes of
a previously defined, named field (called the referenced field)
to the field you are defining.

The referenced field can be previously defined in the ICF file
you are defining. The referenced field can also be defined in a previously
created database file (the database file to be referenced is specified with
the REF or REFFLD keyword). The field attributes referenced are the length,
data type, and decimal positions of the field, as well as the ALIAS, FLTPCN,
and TEXT keywords.
If you do not specify R, you cannot use the reference
function for this field and you must specify field attributes for this field.
Position
29 must be blank at the file and record levels.
The name of the referenced
field can be either the same as the field you are defining or different from
the field you are defining. If the name of the referenced field is the same
as the field you are defining, you need only specify the letter R in position
29 (in addition to specifying the name of the field you are defining in positions
19 through 28). If the name of the field you are defining is different, you
must specify the name of the referenced field with the REFFLD (Referenced
Field) keyword.
You can specify the name of the file
defining the referenced field as a parameter value with the REF or REFFLD
keyword.
You do not need to copy all attributes from the previously
described field to the field you are defining. To override specific attributes
of the referenced field, specify those attributes for the field you are defining.
For example, if you specify a length for the field you are defining, the length
is not copied from the referenced field.
When you override the data
type to character (by specifying A in position 35), the decimal positions
value is not copied from the referenced field.
Note: After
the ICF file is created, you can delete or change the referenced file without
affecting the field descriptions in the ICF file. Delete and re-create the
ICF file to incorporate changes made in the referenced file.