COLOR (Color) keyword in printer files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

COLOR (Color) keyword in printer files

You use this field-level keyword to
specify the color for a field.

This keyword can be used only with printers that provide support for it,
such as the 4224 and the Infoprint Hi-Lite Color Printer, model 4005-HCI.
If you do not specify COLOR or if the keyword is not valid for a printer device,
black (the default value) is used.

The format of the keyword is: COLOR(color-name | *RGB rvalue gvalue bvalue |
*CMYK cvalue mvalue yvalue kvalue |
*CIELAB lvalue c1value c2value |
*HIGHLIGHT hvalue coverage)

You can specify color for a view by using one of five methods:
Color name

RGB (red/green/blue) color model

CMYK (cyan/magenta/yellow/black) color model

CIELAB color model

Highlight color model

Color name modelFor the color-name, you can specify
one, and only one, of the following parameter values for COLOR:

Parameter

Meaning

BLK

Black

BLU

Blue

BRN

Brown

GRN

Green

PNK

Pink

RED

Red

TRQ

Turquoise

YLW

Yellow

RGB color modelFor the RGB color model, specify
three RGB integer values in the following form:
COLOR (*RGB rvalue gvalue bvalue)The
rvalue represents a value for red; gvalue represents a value for green; and
bvalue represents a value for blue. Specify each of the three integer values
as a percentage from 0 to 100.
Note: An RGB specification of *RGB 0 0 0
is black. An RGB specification of *RGB 100 100 100 is white. Any other value
is a color somewhere between black and white, depending on the output device.

CMYK color modelFor the CMYK color model, specify
four integer values in the following form:
COLOR (*CMYK cvalue mvalue yvalue kvalue)The
cvalue represents a value for cyan, mvalue represents a value for magenta,
yvalue represents a value for yellow, and kvalue represents a value for black.
Specify each of the four integer values as a percentage from 0 to 100.

CIELAB color modelFor the CIELAB color model, specify
three values in the following form:
COLOR (*CIELAB lvalue c1value c2value)The
lvalue specifies the luminance value. The valid range for the lvalue is 0.00
to 100.00. Use signed integers from -127 to 127 for the c1value and c2value
to specify the chrominance differences.

Highlight color modelFor the Highlight color model,
specify two values in the following form:
COLOR (*HIGHLIGHT hvalue coverage)Highlight
colors are device-dependent. You can specify them for the IBM® InfoPrint
Hi-Lite Color Printer, Model 4005-HCI. You can specify an integer within the
range of 0 to 65535 for the hvalue.
The coverage value indicates the
amount of the highlight color that is to be used. Specify the coverage value
as a percentage from 0 to 100. If you specify less than 100 percent, the remaining
coverage is achieved with the specified color.
Notes:
An hvalue of 0 indicates that there is no default value defined. Therefore,
the default color of the presentation device is used, and the remaining coverage
is achieved with the default color.

The following monochrome IBM IPDS printers support gray scaling when
you specify highlight color:
Infoprint 60

Infoprint 62

Infoprint 2000

Infoprint 3000

Infoprint 4000

These printers must be at ucode level 8.3 or later.

Using the COLOR keywordIf you use COLOR on the
same record format with the BLKFOLD, CPI, or DFNCHR keyword, the file is not
created.
COLOR is valid on IPDS and IPDS AFP(*YES) printers. If you specify
DEVTYPE(*SCS) on the CRTPRTF command, a warning message results but the file
is created successfully.
Valid data types for this keyword are A, S,
and F.
When you specify COLOR more than once for a field, you must
specify option indicators each time you specify COLOR. If more than one COLOR
is in effect when printing the field, the first one in effect is used. You
cannot specify the same color more than once on the same field. The following
example shows the effects of specifying COLOR for a field.
Option indicators
are valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the COLOR keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A 99 1 3'PRINT RED TEXT'
A COLOR(RED)
A FIELD1 3A 12 01TEXT('PINK IF 02, +
A YELLOW IF 07, +
A BLACK IF NEITHER')
A 02 COLOR(PNK)
A 07 COLOR(YLW)
A FIELD2 10A 20 01COLOR(*CIELAB 76.0 -25 65)
AIn the example, if indicator 99 is ON, the constant field
'PRINT RED TEXT' prints in red. FIELD1 prints in pink, yellow, or black, depending
on the indicators 02 and 07. FIELD2 specifies to print using the CIELAB color
model. The luminance value is 76.0; the c1value is -25; and the c2value is
65.