Handling unmonitored messages

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging original program model programs > Debugging original program model programs

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging original program model programs

Handling unmonitored messages
When a function check occurs in an interactive
debug job, the system provides default handling and gives you control instead
of stopping the program.
Normally, if a program receives an unmonitored escape message,
the system sends the function check message (CPF9999) to the program's program
message queue and the program stops processing. However, high-level language
(HLL) program compilers may insert monitors for the function check message
or for messages that may occur in the program. (An inquiry message is sent
to the program messages display.) This allows you to end the program the way
you want. In an interactive debug job, when a function check occurs, the system
displays the following on the unmonitored message display:
The message
The MI instruction number and HLL statement identifier, if available,
to which the message was sent
The name and recursion level of the program to which the message was sent

The following is an example of an unmonitored message breakpoint display:

Display Unmonitored Message Breakpoint

Statement/Instruction . . . . . . . : 440 /0077
Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . : TETEST
Recursion level . . . . . . . . . . : 1

Errors occurred on command.

Press Enter to continue.

F3=Exit program F10=Command Entry

You can try to isolate the source of the error by using the testing
functions. However, the original request in error is still stopped at the
point where the error occurred. To remove the request in error from the call
stack, you must use the End Request (ENDRQS) command or
press F3 when the unmonitored message breakpoint display is shown. You can
let the typical function check processing continue by pressing the Enter key
when the unmonitored message breakpoint display is shown. If you press F10
to call the command entry display, you must press F3 to return to the unmonitored
message breakpoint display.
The following figure shows how the ENDRQS command
works.
Program calls are destroyed when the ENDRQS command
is entered. (In the previous figure, the program call of PGMA is destroyed.)

Parent topic: Debugging original program model programs

Related information
End Request (ENDRQS) command