Debugging original program model programs

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging CL programs and procedures

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures

Debugging original program model programs
To debug your original program model (OPM) programs,
use testing functions. These functions are available through a set of commands
that can be used interactively or in a batch job.
Testing functions are designed to help you write
and maintain your applications. You can use testing functions to run your
programs in a special testing environment while closely observing and controlling
the processing of these programs in the testing environment. You can interact
with your programs using the testing functions. You can use the functions
to perform the following tasks:
Trace a program's processing sequence and show the statements processed
and the values of program variables at each point in the sequence.
Stop at any statement in a program (called a breakpoint) and receive control
to perform a function such as displaying or changing a variable value or calling
another user-defined program.

No special commands specifically for testing are contained in the
program being tested. The same program being tested can be run normally without
changes. All test commands are specified within the job the program is in,
not as a permanent part of the program being tested. With the testing commands,
you interact with the programs symbolically in the same terms as the high-level
language (HLL) program was written in. You refer to variables by their names
and statements by their numbers. (These are the numbers used in the program's
source list.) In addition, the test functions are only applicable to the job
they are set up in. The same program can be used at the same time in another
job without being affected by the testing functions set up.

Starting debug mode
Debug mode is a special environment in
which the testing functions can be used in addition to the normal system functions.
Displaying the call stack
To display the call stack, use the Display
Debug (DSPDBG) command.
Handling unmonitored messages
When a function check occurs in an interactive
debug job, the system provides default handling and gives you control instead
of stopping the program.
Breakpoints
A breakpoint is a place in a program at which the system stops
program processing and gives control to you at a display station (interactive
mode) or to a program specified on the BKPPGM parameter in the Add
Breakpoint (ADDBKP) command (batch mode).
Traces
A trace is the process of recording the
sequence in which the statements in a program are processed.
Displaying testing information
Displaying testing information can help you review
your job in debug mode.
Displaying the values of variables
If you specify the variable names on the Add
Breakpoint (ADDBKP) command, the values of program variables are
displayed automatically on the breakpoint display. You can also enter the Display
Program Variable (DSPPGMVAR) command at the breakpoint by pressing
F10 to show the command entry display.
Changing the values of variables
To change the value of a program variable in
debug mode, use the Change Program Variable (CHGPGMVAR),
the Change HLL Pointer (CHGHLLPTR), or the Change
Pointer (CHGPTR) command.
Reasons for using a job to debug another job
You might want to use a separate job to debug
programs that run in another job in these situations.
Debugging at the machine interface level
To debug your programs at the machine interface
(MI) level, specify an MI object definition vector (ODV) number for the PGMVAR
parameter of a command and MI instruction numbers for the STMT parameter of
a command.
Security considerations
To debug a program, you must have *CHANGE authority
to that program.
Operations that temporarily remove breakpoints
If you use certain CL commands to
specify your library or program, you can temporarily remove breakpoints or
statement traces from a program while the debug function is running.

Parent topic: Debugging CL programs and procedures

Related tasks
Using libraries

Related reference
Parameter values used for testing and debugging