SLNO (Starting Line Number) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

SLNO (Starting Line Number) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword
to specify a starting line number for the record format you are defining.

If specified, SLNO adjusts the actual line numbers for each field
in the record format. If you do not specify SLNO, fields in the record format
are displayed on the lines you specify for them in positions 39 through 41.
The
format of the keyword is: SLNO(n | *VAR)
You
can specify one of two parameter values for this keyword:
Specify n, where n is a value between 1 and 27. All fields in the
record format are offset n-1 lines down the display from their specified locations.
If SLNO(1) is specified, the record format must not contain a field starting
at line 1, position 1.

Specify *VAR to enable your program to set the starting line number at
runtime before displaying the record format. At file creation time, the IBM® i program sets the starting
line number to one. A warning message appears at file creation time if the
record contains a field starting at line 1, position 1. If your program does
not set the starting line number or sets it to zero, the IBM i operating
system assumes its value is one. If your program sets the starting line number
to a value such that the first field in the record format does not all fit
on the display, or sets it to a negative value, the IBM i operating
system sends a notify message (CPF5002) to your program, and the record is
not displayed. If the starting line number is set to one and the record format
contains a field starting at line 1, position 1, the IBM i operating
system sends an error message (CPF5398) to your program. The record is not
displayed. To calculate the line on which a field is actually displayed,
subtract one from the line number specified in positions 39 through 41 and
add the starting line number to the result. The record format begins on the
line specified with SLNO unless a field is defined at line 1, position 1.
In that case, the beginning attribute byte is in the last position of the
previous line and the starting line of the format is one less than that specified
by SLNO.
When *VAR is specified, no field in the record can occupy the
last position on the display.

If a CLRL(nn) or CLRL(*END) keyword is also in effect for this
record when it is to be displayed, lines on the display are cleared beginning
with the starting line number for the format.
If you use the SLNO(*VAR)
keyword with the OVERLAY keyword but without the CLRL keyword and then write
the record several times, each time with a different starting number, the
previous record is deleted before the new record displays.
The IBM i program checks the starting
line number to determine whether the previous output operation to the record
had the same starting line number if you use the SLNO keyword with the following
keywords: ERRMSG
ERRMSGID
PUTOVR
PUTRETAIN

If the starting numbers are the same, the actions
specified by the ERRMSG, ERRMSGID, PUTOVR, or the PUTRETAIN keyword is performed.
If
the starting line numbers are not the same, the ERRMSG, ERRMSGID, PUTOVR,
or PUTRETAIN keyword is ignored, and the record format displays with the lines
adjusted to the new value.
The SLNO keyword is not allowed in a record
format that has one of the following keywords specified: ASSUME
KEEP
SFL
SFLCTL
USRDFN

SLNO cannot be specified for the record format specified
by the PASSRCD keyword.
Option indicators are not valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the SLNO keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R RECORD1 SLNO(*VAR)
00020A FIELD1 5 I 2 2
00030A FIELD2 5 B 3 2
00040A
00050A R RECORD2 SLNO(2)
00060A FIELD3 5 10 2
00070A FIELD4 5 B 10 13
AIn this example, when the starting line number is zero
or one, FIELD1 is displayed on line 2 and FIELD2 is displayed on line 3, as
specified. When the starting line number is set to 2 in your program, FIELD1
is displayed on line 3 (2 - 1 + 2 = 3) and FIELD2 is displayed on line 4 (2
- 1 + 3 = 4).
FIELD3 and FIELD4 are always displayed on line 11 (2 -
1 + 10 = 11).