SET CONNECTION

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

SET CONNECTION
The SET CONNECTION statement establishes the current server
of the activation group by identifying one of its existing connections.
InvocationThis statement can only be embedded
within an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that cannot be dynamically prepared. It must not be specified
in Java™ or REXX.
SET CONNECTION is not allowed in a trigger or function.
Authorization If a global variable
is referenced in a statement, the privileges held by the authorization
ID of the statement must include at least one of the following:
For the global variable identified in the statement, The READ privilege on the global variable, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the global
variable

Database administrator authority

SyntaxSET CONNECTIONserver-namevariable
Descriptionserver-name or variable
Identifies the connection
by the specified server name or the server name contained in the variable. It can be a global variable if it is qualified with schema
name. If a variable is specified: It must be a character-string variable with a length attribute
that is not greater than 18.
It must not be followed by an indicator variable.
The server name must be left-justified within the variable and
must conform to the rules for forming an ordinary identifier.
If the length of the server name is less than the length of the
variable, it must be padded on the right with blanks.

Let S denote the specified server name or the server name
contained in the variable. S must identify an existing connection
of the application process. If S identifies the current connection,
the state of S and all other connections of the application process
are unchanged, but information about S is placed in the SQLERRP field
of the SQLCA. The following rules apply when S identifies a dormant
connection.
If the SET CONNECTION statement is successful:
Connection S is placed in the current state.
S is placed in the CURRENT SERVER special register.
Information about the application server is placed in the connection-information-items in
the SQL Diagnostics Area.
Information about application server S is also placed in the SQLERRP
field of the SQLCA. If the application server is an IBM® relational database product, the information
has the form pppvvrrm, where: ppp identifies the product as follows:
ARI for DB2® for VSE and
VM
DSN for DB2 for z/OS®
QSQ for DB2 for
i
SQL for all other DB2 products

vv is a two-digit version identifier
such as '04'
rr is a two-digit release identifier
such as '01'
m is a one-digit modification level
such as '0'

For example, if the application server is Version 4 of DB2 for z/OS, the value of SQLERRP is 'DSN04010'.

Additional information about the connection is available from
the DB2_CONNECTION_STATUS and DB2_CONNECTION_TYPE connection information
items in the SQL Diagnostics Area. The DB2_CONNECTION_STATUS connection
information item indicates the status of connection for this unit
of work. It will have one of the following values:
1 - Committable updates can be performed on the connection for
this unit of work.
2 - No committable updates can be performed on the connection
for this unit of work.

The DB2_CONNECTION_TYPE connection information item indicates
the type of connection. It will have one of the following values:

1 - Connection is to a local relational database.
2 - Connection is to a remote relational database with the conversation
unprotected.
3 - Connection is to a remote relational database with the conversation
protected.
4 - Connection is to an application requester driver program.

Additional information about the connection is also placed in
the SQLERRD(4) field of the SQLCA. SQLERRD(4) will contain a value
indicating whether the application server allows committable updates
to be performed. Following is a list of values and their meanings
for the SQLERRD(4) field of the SQLCA on the CONNECT : 1 - Committable updates can be performed and either the connection
uses an unprotected conversation, is a connection established to an
application requester driver program using a CONNECT (Type 1) statement,
or is a local connection established using a CONNECT (Type 1) statement.
2 - No committable updates can be performed; conversation is
unprotected.
3 - It is unknown if committable updates can be performed; conversation
is protected.
4 - It is unknown if committable updates can be performed; conversation
is unprotected.
5 - It is unknown if committable updates can be performed and
the connection is either a local connection established using a CONNECT
(Type 2) statement or a connection to an application requester driver
program established using a CONNECT (Type 2) statement.

Additional information about the connection is placed in the SQLERRMC
field of the SQLCA. Refer to Appendix B, "SQL Communication Area"
for a description of the information in the SQLERRMC field.
Any previously current connection is placed in the dormant state.

If the SET CONNECTION statement is unsuccessful, the connection
state of the activation group and the states of its connections are
unchanged.
NotesSET
CONNECTION for CONNECT (Type 1): The use of CONNECT (Type 1) statements
does not prevent the use of SET CONNECTION, but the statement either
fails or does nothing because dormant connections do not exist.
Status after connection is restored: When a connection
is used, made dormant, and then restored to the current state in the
same unit of work, the status of locks, cursors, and prepared statements
for that connection reflects its last use by the activation group.
Local connections: A SET CONNECTION to a local
connection will fail if the current independent auxiliary Storage
pool (IASP) name space does not match the local connection's relational
database.
ExampleExecute SQL statements at TOROLAB1,
execute SQL statements at TOROLAB2, and then execute more SQL statements
at TOROLAB1.
  
EXEC SQL
CONNECT TO
TOROLAB1;

   (Execute statements referencing objects at TOROLAB1)

  
EXEC SQL
CONNECT TO
TOROLAB2;  

   (Execute statements referencing objects at TOROLAB2)

  
EXEC SQL
SET CONNECTION
TOROLAB1;

   (Execute statements referencing objects at TOROLAB1)

The first CONNECT statement creates the TOROLAB1 connection,
the second CONNECT statement places it in the dormant state, and the
SET CONNECTION statement returns it to the current state.

Parent topic: Statements