INDARA (Indicator Area) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

INDARA (Indicator Area) keyword for display files

You use this file-level keyword to remove option
and response indicators from the buffer (also called the record area) and
to place them in a 99-byte separate indicator area.

This keyword has no parameters.
Specifying INDARA provides
the following advantages:
Simplifies COBOL programming when both option and response indicators
are used. If the same indicator is used as a response indicator and as an
option indicator, both indicators always have the same value, regardless of
the order in which they are specified in the DDS.

Assists the RPG programmer using program-described WORKSTN files.

If you specify INDARA, you can add, change, or delete option and
response indicators in the DDS and re-create the file without re-creating
the high-level language program. This is true because the field locations
in the buffer have not changed and therefore the level check data has not
changed. However, if the program is to take advantage of the new indicators,
it still needs to be changed and re-created.
If you specify INDARA,
some high-level languages might require that you specify in your program that
a separate indicator area is to be used. See the appropriate high-level language
manual.
If you specify INDARA, the LOGINP and LOGOUT keywords do not
log response or option indicators when your program sends I/O operations.
This is because response and option indicators do not appear in the input
or output buffers.
Option indicators are not valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the INDARA keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A INDARA
00020A CF01(01 'End program')
00030A R PROMPT
00040A ACTNBR 10 B 2 2
00050A 41 ERRMSG('Account number +
00060A not found' 41)
AINDARA has been specified; option indicator 41 and response
indicators 01 and 41 are removed from the buffer for record format PROMPT
and placed in the separate indicator area. Only ACTNBR, a named input/output
field, remains in the buffer for record format PROMPT.