Call Operations

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operations > Operations

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operations

Call Operations

The call operations are shown in the following table.

Table 1. Call Operations.

Operation

Traditional Syntax

Free-Form Syntax

Call Program or Procedure

CALL (Call a Program)

CALLB (Call a Bound Procedure)

CALLP (Call a Prototyped Procedure or Program)

CALLP (Call a Prototyped Procedure or Program)

Identify Parameters

PARM (Identify Parameters)

PLIST (Identify a Parameter List)

PI or PR definition specification

Number of Parameters

 

%PARMS (Return Number of Parameters)

Number of a Parameter

 

%PARMNUM (Return Parameter Number)

Return

RETURN (Return to Caller)

RETURN (Return to Caller)

CALLP is one type of prototyped call. The second type is a call from within
an expression. A prototyped call is a call for which
there is a prototype defined for the call interface.
The prototype may be explicitly defined using a Prototype definition,
or it may be implicitly defined by the compiler from the Procedure Interface,
if the procedure is defined in the same module as the call.

Call operations allow an RPG IV procedure to transfer control to other
programs or procedures. However, prototyped calls differ from the CALL and
CALLB operations in that they allow free-form syntax.

The RETURN operation transfers control back to the calling program or procedure
and returns a value, if any. The PLIST and PARM operations can be used with
the CALL and CALLB operations to indicate which parameters should be passed
on the call. With a prototyped call, you pass the parameters on the call.

The recommended way to call a program or procedure (written in any language)
is to code a prototyped call.

Prototyped Calls

Operational Descriptors

Parsing Program Names on a Call

Parsing System Built-In Names

Value of *ROUTINE

Parent topic: Operations