Monitoring for status messages

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Monitoring for messages in a CL program or procedure > Monitoring for messages in a CL program or procedure

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Monitoring for messages in a CL program or procedure

Monitoring for status messages
You can monitor for status messages that are sent by the commands
in your CL procedure or by the programs and procedures it calls.
Status messages tell your procedure the status
of the work performed by the sender. By monitoring for status messages, you
can prevent the sending program or procedure from proceeding with any more
processing.
No message information is stored in a message queue for
status messages. Therefore, a status message cannot be received.
If
a status message is not monitored for, it is percolated like escape and notify
messages are. If the activation group boundary is reached without a Monitor
Message (MONMSG) command being found, action on the message is considered
complete and control is returned to the sender of the message to continue
processing. Status messages are often sent to communicate normal conditions
that have been detected where processing can continue.
Status messages
sent to the external message queue are shown on the interactive display, informing
the user of a function in progress. For example, the Copy File (CPYF) command
sends a message informing the user that a copy operation is in progress.
Only
predefined messages can be sent as status messages; immediate messages cannot
be sent. You can use the system-supplied message ID, CPF9898, and supply
message data to send a status message if you do not have an existing message
description.
When the function is completed, your procedure or program
should remove the status message from the interactive display. The message
cannot be removed using a command, but sending another status message to *EXT
with a blank message gives the appearance of removing the message. The system-supplied
message ID CPI9801 can be used for this purpose. When control returns to
the i5/OS® program, the
*STATUS message may be cleared from line 24, without sending the CPI9801 message.
The following example shows a typical application of message IDs CPF9898 and
CPI9801:
SNDPGMMSG MSGID(CPF9898) MSGF(QCPFMSG) +
MSGDTA('Function xxx being performed') +
TOPGMQ(*EXT) MSGTYPE(*STATUS)
•
• /* Your processing function */
•
SNDPGMMSG MSGID(CPI9801) MSGF(QCPFMSG) +
TOPGMQ(*EXT) MSGTYPE(*STATUS)

Parent topic: Monitoring for messages in a CL program or procedure