ENCRYPT_RC2

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

ENCRYPT_RC2
The ENCRYPT_RC2 function returns a value that is the result
of encrypting data-string using the RC2
encryption algorithm. The password used for decryption is either the password-string value
or the encryption password value (assigned by the SET ENCRYPTION PASSWORD
statement).
ENCRYPT_RC2(data-string,password-string,hint-string)
data-string
An expression that returns the string value to be encrypted. The
string expression must be a built-in string data type. The length
attribute for the data type of data-string must
be less than m - MOD(m,8)
- n - 1, where m is
the maximum length of the result data type and n is
the amount of overhead necessary to encrypt the value.If a hint-string is not specified, n is 8 bytes.
If a hint-string is specified, n is 40 bytes.

password-string
An expression that returns a character string value with at least
6 bytes and no more than 127 bytes. The expression must not be a CLOB.
The value represents the password used to encrypt the data-string.
If the value of the password argument is null or not provided, the
data will be encrypted using the ENCRYPTION PASSWORD value, which
must have been set using the SET ENCRYPTION PASSWORD statement.
hint-string
An expression that returns a character string value with up to
32 bytes that will help data owners remember passwords (For example,
'Ocean' is a hint to remember 'Pacific'). The expression must not
be a CLOB. If a hint value is specified, the hint is embedded into
the result and can be retrieved using the GETHINT function. If the password-string is
specified and this argument is the null value or not provided, no
hint will be embedded in the result. If the password-string is
not specified, the hint may be specified using the SET ENCRYPTION
PASSWORD statement.

The data type of the result is determined by the first
argument as shown in the following table:
Data Type of the First Argument
Data Type of the Result

BINARY or VARBINARY
VARBINARY

CHAR, VARCHAR, GRAPHIC, or VARGRAPHIC
VARCHAR FOR BIT DATA

BLOB, CLOB, or DBCLOB
BLOB

The length attribute of the result depends on the arguments
that are specified:
When a password-string is specified
but a hint-string is not specified, the
length attribute of data-string plus 16
plus the number of bytes to the next 8 byte boundary.1
Otherwise, the length attribute of data-string plus
48 plus the number of bytes to the next 8 byte boundary.1

The actual length of the result is the sum of :The actual length of data-string plus
a number of bytes to get to the next 8 byte boundary.1
The actual length of the hint. The actual length of the hint
is zero if hint-string is not specified
as a function argument or on the SET ENCRYPTION PASSWORD statement.

n, where n (the
amount of overhead necessary to encrypt the value) is 8 bytes (or
16 bytes if data-string is a LOB or different
CCSID values are used for the data-string,
the password, or the hint).

If the argument can be null, the result can be null; if
the argument is null, the result is the null value.
Note that the encrypted result is longer than the data-string value.
Therefore, when assigning encrypted values, ensure that the target
is declared with sufficient size to contain the entire encrypted value.
NotesPassword
protection: To prevent inadvertent access to the encryption password,
do not specify password-string as a string
constant in the source for a program, procedure, or function. Instead,
use the SET ENCRYPTION PASSWORD statement or a host variable.
When
connected to a remote relational database, the specified password
itself is sent "in the clear". That is, the password itself is not
encrypted. To protect the password in these cases, consider using
a communications encryption mechanism such as IPSEC (or SSL if connecting
between IBM® i products).
Encryption
algorithm: The internal encryption algorithm used is RC2 block
cipher with padding, the 128 bit secret key is derived from the password
using a MD5 message digest.
Encryption passwords and data: It
is the user's responsibility to perform password management. Once
the data is encrypted only the password used to encrypt it can be
used to decrypt it. Be careful when using CHAR variables to set password
values as they may be padded with blanks. The encrypted result may
contain a null terminator and other non-printable characters.
Table
column definition: When defining columns and distinct types to
contain encrypted data:
The column must be defined with a data type of CHAR FOR BIT DATA,
VARCHAR FOR BIT DATA, BINARY, VARBINARY, or BLOB.
The length attribute of the column must include an additional n bytes,
where n is the overhead necessary to encrypt
the data as described above.

Any assignment or cast to a column without one of these data
types or with a length shorter than the suggested data length may
result in an assignment error or, if the assignment is successful,
a failure and lost data when the data is subsequently decrypted. Blanks
are valid encrypted data values that may be truncated when stored
in a column that is too short.
Some sample column length calculations:
Maximum length of non-encrypted data 6 bytes
Number of bytes to the next 8 byte boundary 2 bytes
Overhead 8 bytes (or 16 bytes)
--------
Encrypted data column length 16 bytes (or 32 bytes)

Maximum length of non-encrypted data 32 bytes
Number of bytes to the next 8 byte boundary 8 bytes
Overhead 8 bytes (or 16 bytes)
--------
Encrypted data column length 48 bytes (or 56 bytes)
Administration
of encrypted data: Encrypted data can only be decrypted on servers
that support the decryption functions that correspond to the ENCRYPT_RC2
function. Hence, replication of columns with encrypted data should
only be done to servers that support the decryption functions.
Syntax
alternatives: For compatibility with previous versions of DB2®, ENCRYPT can be specified in
place of ENCRYPT_RC2.
ExampleAssume that table EMP1 has a social security column called SSN.
This example uses the ENCRYPTION PASSWORD value to hold the encryption
password.   SET ENCRYPTION PASSWORD = 'Ben123'

  INSERT INTO EMP1 (SSN) VALUES ENCRYPT_RC2( '289-46-8832' )

This example explicitly passes the encryption password.   INSERT INTO EMP1 (SSN) VALUES ENCRYPT_RC2( '289-46-8832', 'Ben123' )

The hint 'Ocean' is stored to help the user remember the encryption
password 'Pacific'.   INSERT INTO EMP1 (SSN) VALUES ENCRYPT_RC2( '289-46-8832', 'Pacific', 'Ocean' )

Parent topic: Scalar functions

1 Unlike
ENCRYPT_TDES and ENCRYPT_AES, 8 bytes are added even if the length
of data-string is already on an 8 byte boundary.