Library objects

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > i5/OS objects > i5/OS objects

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > i5/OS objects

Library objects
A library is an object that is used to group related
objects, and to find objects by name when they are used. Thus, a library is
a directory to a group of objects.
You can use libraries to group the objects into any meaningful collection.
For example, you can group objects according to security requirements, backup
requirements, or processing requirements. The amount of available disk storage
limits the number of objects that a library can contain, and the number of
libraries on the system.
The object grouping performed by libraries is a logical grouping. When
a library is created, you can specify into which user auxiliary storage pool
(ASP) or independent auxiliary storage pool (independent disk pool) the library
should be created. All objects created into the library are created into the
same ASP as the library. Objects in a library are not necessarily physically
adjacent to each other. The size of a library, or of any other object, is
not restricted by the amount of adjacent space available in storage. The
system finds the necessary storage for objects as they are stored in the system.
Most types of objects are placed in a library when they are created. The
AUT parameter on CRTLIB defines the public authority of the library. The CRTAUT
parameter specifies the default authority for objects that are created into
the library. If the command creating the object specifies *LIBCRTAUT for
the AUT parameter, the object's public authority is the create authority that
was specified for the library. You can move most object types from one library
to another, but a single object cannot be in more than one library at the
same time. When you move an object to a different library, the object is not
moved in storage. You now locate the object through the new library. You can
also rename and copy most object types from one library into another.
A library name can be used to provide another level of identification to
the name of an object. As described earlier, an object is identified by its
name and its type. The name of the library further qualifies the object name.
The combination of an object name and the library name is called the qualified
name of the object. The qualified name tells the system the name of the
object and the library it is in.
The following figure shows two libraries and the qualified names of the
objects in them.
Two objects with the same name and type can exist in different libraries.
Two different objects with the same name cannot exist in the same library
unless their object types differ. This design allows a program that refers
to objects by name to work with different objects (objects with the same name
but stored in different libraries) in successive runs of the program without
changing the program itself. Also, a workstation user who is creating a new
object does not need to be concerned about names used for objects in other
libraries. For example, in the following figure, a new file named MONTHUPD
(monthly update) could be added to the library OELIB, but not to the library
ACCTLIB. The creation of the file into ACCTLIB would fail because another
object named MONTHUPD and of type file already exists in library ACCTLIB.
An object is identified within a library by the object name and type. Many
CL commands apply only to a single object type, so the object type does not
have to be explicitly identified. For those commands that apply to many object
types, the object type must be explicitly identified.
Objects that use the integrated file system are located in directories
and can be found by using path names or object name patterns instead of searching
libraries. You can also use these directories to locate objects.

Parent topic: i5/OS objects

Related concepts
Integrated file system

Related tasks
Using libraries

Related information
Independent disk pool examples