Memory Management Operations

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operations > Operations

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operations

Memory Management Operations

The memory management operations are shown in the following
table.

Table 1. Memory Management Operations.

Operation

Traditional Syntax

Free-Form Syntax

Allocate Storage

ALLOC (Allocate Storage)

%ALLOC (Allocate Storage)

Free Storage

DEALLOC (Free Storage)

DEALLOC (Free Storage)

Reallocate Storage

REALLOC (Reallocate Storage with New Length)

%REALLOC (Reallocate Storage)

Get the Address of a Variable

 

%ADDR (Get Address of Variable)

Get the Address of a Procedure

 

%PADDR (Get Procedure Address)

The ALLOC operation allocates heap storage and sets the result-field pointer
to point to the storage. The storage is uninitialized.

The REALLOC operation changes the length of the heap storage pointed to
by the result-field pointer. New storage is allocated and initialized to the
value of the old storage. The data is truncated if the new size is smaller
than the old size. If the new size is greater than the old size, the storage
following the copied data is uninitialized. The old storage is released. The
result-field pointer is set to point to the new storage.

The DEALLOC operation releases the heap storage that the result-field pointer
is set to. If operational extender (N) is specified, the pointer is set to
*NULL after a successful deallocation.

Storage is implicitly freed when the activation group ends. Setting LR
on will not free any heap storage allocated by the module, but any pointers
to heap storage will be lost.

There are two types of heap storage: single-level and teraspace.
You can use the ALLOC keyword on the
Control specification to control
which type of heap storage is used by your memory management operations.

There are advantages and disadvantages of each type of heap storage.

The maximum size of an individual allocation or reallocation is
larger for teraspace heap storage.

The maximum size that RPG allows
for the %ALLOC and %REALLOC built-in functions is 4294967295 bytes.
When you use single-level heap storage, the maximum size that RPG allows
is 16776704 bytes.

RPG allows the larger maximum of 4294967295 bytes for the ALLOC and
REALLOC operation codes when the compiler can detect at compile time that
memory management operations will use teraspace heap storage.
If RPG memory management operations will use single-level heap storage,
or if the compiler cannot detect the type of heap storage at compile time,
then the smaller limit of 16776704 bytes will be in effect.

Note that the actual maximum size that you can allocate
may be less than the maximum size that RPG allows, depending on
the availability of heap storage at runtime.

The system functions that RPG uses to reallocate and deallocate
teraspace heap storage can handle pointers to either single-level heap
storage or teraspace heap storage.
When the teraspace reallocation function
is used to reallocate a pointer, the new
allocation will be the same type of heap storage as the original allocation.

The system functions that RPG uses to reallocate and deallocate
single-level heap storage can only handle pointers to single-level
heap storage.

Single-level storage can provide greater integrity than
teraspace storage.
For example, using single-level storage, the storage that
can be affected by a storage over-run is measured in megabytes; for
teraspace storage, it is measured in terabytes.

For more information on the different types of heap storage,
see the chapter on storage management in ILE Concepts, SC41-5606.

Misuse of heap storage can cause problems. The following example illustrates
a scenario to avoid:

D Fld1 S 25A BASED(Ptr1)
D Fld2 S 5A BASED(Ptr2)
D Ptr1 S *
D Ptr2 S *
....
C ALLOC 25 Ptr1
C DEALLOC Ptr1
* After this point, Fld1 should not be accessed since the
* basing pointer Ptr1 no longer points to allocated storage.
C CALL 'SOMEPGM'

* During the previous call to 'SOMEPGM', several storage allocations
* may have been done. In any case, it is extremely dangerous to
* make the following assignment, since 25 bytes of storage will
* be filled with 'a'. It is impossible to know what that storage
* is currently being used for.
C EVAL Fld1 = *ALL'a'

Following are more problematic situations:

A similar error can be made if a pointer is copied before being reallocated
or deallocated. Great care must be taken when copying pointers to allocated
storage, to ensure that they are not used after the storage is deallocated
or reallocated.

If a pointer to heap storage is copied, the copy can be used to deallocate
or reallocate the storage. In this case, the original pointer should not be
used until it is set to a new value.

If a pointer to heap storage is passed as a parameter, the callee could
deallocate or reallocate the storage. After the call returns, attempts to
access the storage through pointer could cause problems.

If a pointer to heap storage is set in the *INZSR, a later RESET of the
pointer could cause the pointer to get set to storage that is no longer allocated.

Another type of problem can be caused if a pointer to heap storage is
lost (by being cleared, or set to a new pointer by an ALLOC operation, for
example). Once the pointer is lost, the storage it pointed to cannot be freed.
This storage is unavailable to be allocated since the system does not know
that the storage is no longer addressable. The storage will not be freed until
the activation group ends.

Parent topic: Operations