REGEXP_INSTR

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

REGEXP_INSTR
The REGEXP_INSTR returns the starting position or the position
after the end of the matched substring, depending on the value of
the return_option argument.
REGEXP_INSTR(source-string,pattern-expression,start,occurence,return-option,flags,group)
source-string
An expression that specifies the string in which the search is
to take place. The expression must return a value that is a built-in
character string, graphic string, numeric, or datetime data type.
If the value is not a UTF-16 DBCLOB, it is implicitly cast to a UTF-16
DBCLOB before searching for the regular expression pattern. A character
string with the FOR BIT DATA attribute or a binary string is not supported.
The length of a string must not be greater than 1 gigabyte.
pattern-expression
An expression that specifies the regular expression string that
is the pattern for the search. The expression must return a value
that is a built-in character string, graphic string, numeric, or datetime
data type. If the value is not a UTF-16 DBCLOB, it is implicitly cast
to a UTF-16 DBCLOB before searching for the regular expression pattern.
A character string with the FOR BIT DATA attribute or a binary string
is not supported. The length of the string must not be greater than
32K.A valid pattern-expression consists of a set of characters
and control characters that describe the pattern of the search. For
a description of the valid control characters, see Regular expression control characters.

start
An expression that specifies the position within source-string at
which the search is to start. The expression must return a value of
any built-in numeric, character-string, or graphic-string data type.
The argument is cast to INTEGER before evaluating the function. For
more information about converting to INTEGER, see INTEGER or INT. The value of the integer must
be greater than or equal to 1. If the value of the integer is greater
than the actual length of the source-string, the result is
0.

occurrence
An expression that specifies which occurrence of the pattern-expression within source-string to
search for. The expression must return a value of any built-in numeric,
character-string, or graphic-string data type. The argument is cast
to INTEGER before evaluating the function. For more information about
converting to INTEGER, see INTEGER or INT.
The value of the integer must be greater than or equal to 1. If occurrence is
not specified, the default value is 1 which indicates that only the
first occurrence of pattern-expression is considered.

return-option
An expression that specifies whether to return the starting position
or the position after the end of the string that matches the pattern.
The expression must return a value of any built-in numeric, character-string,
or graphic-string data type. The argument is cast to INTEGER before
evaluating the function. For more information about converting to
INTEGER, see INTEGER or INT. The value
of the integer must be equal to 0 or 1. A value of 0 returns the starting
position of the occurrence. A value of 1 returns the ending position
of the occurrence. If return-option is not specified, the default
value is 0.

flags
An expression that specifies flags that control aspects of the
pattern matching. The expression must return a value that is a built-in
character string or graphic string data type. A character string with
the FOR BIT DATA attribute or a binary string is not supported. The
string can include one or more valid flag values and the combination
of flag values must be valid. An empty string is the same as the value
'c'. For a description of the valid flag characters, see Regular expression flag values.

group
An expression that specifies which capture group of the pattern-expression is
used to determine the position within source-string to return.
The expression must return a value of any built-in numeric, character-string,
or graphic-string data type. The argument is cast to INTEGER before
evaluating the function. For more information about converting to
INTEGER, see INTEGER or INT. The value
of the integer must be greater than or equal to 0 and must not be
greater than the number of capture groups in the pattern-expression.
If group is not specified, the default is 0 which indicates
the entire string that matches the entire pattern is returned.

The result of the function is a large integer. If the pattern-expression is
found, the result is a number from 1 to n, where n is
the actual length of the source-string plus 1. The result value
represents the position used to process the function. If the pattern-expression is
not found and no argument is null, the result is 0.
If any argument
of the REGEXP_INSTR function can be null, the result can be null.
If any argument is null, the result is the null value.
NotesPrerequisites: In
order to use the REGEXP_INSTR function, the International Components
for Unicode (ICU) option must be installed
Processing: The
regular expression processing is done using the International Components
for Unicode (ICU) regular expression interface. For more information
see, http://userguide.icu-project.org/strings/regexp.
ExamplesExample 1: Find the first occurrence of a 'o' which has
a character preceding it.SELECT REGEXP_INSTR('hello to you', '.o',1,1)
FROM sysibm.sysdummy1
The result is 4, which is
the position of the second 'l' character.
Example 2: Find the second occurrence of a 'o' which has
a character preceding it.SELECT REGEXP_INSTR('hello to you', '.o',1,2)
FROM sysibm.sysdummy1
The result is 7, which is
the position of the character 't'.
Example 3: Find the position after the third occurrence
of the first capture group of the regular expression '(.o).' using
case insensitive matching.SELECT REGEXP_INSTR('hello to you', '(.o).', 1,3,1,'i',1)
FROM sysibm.sysdummy1
The result is 12, which is
the position of the character 'u' at the end of the string.

Parent topic: Scalar functions