INTEGER or INT

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

INTEGER or INT
The INTEGER function returns an integer representation.
Numeric to Integer
INTEGERINT(numeric-expression)
String to Integer
INTEGERINT(string-expression)
Date to Integer
INTEGERINT(date-expression)
Time to Integer
INTEGERINT(time-expression)
The INTEGER function returns an integer representation
of:
A number
A character or graphic string representation of a decimal number
A character or graphic string representation of an integer
A character or graphic string representation of a floating-point
number
A character or graphic string representation of a decimal floating-point
number
A date
A time

Numeric to Integernumeric-expression
An expression that returns a numeric value of any built-in numeric
data type. If the argument is a numeric-expression,
the result is the same number that would occur if the argument were
assigned to a large integer column or variable. If the whole part
of the argument is not within the range of integers, an error is returned.
The fractional part of the argument is truncated.

String to Integerstring-expression
An expression that returns a value that is a character-string
or graphic-string representation of a number. If the argument is
a string-expression, the result is the same
number that would result from CAST( string-expression AS
INTEGER). Leading and trailing blanks are eliminated and the resulting
string must conform to the rules for forming a floating-point, decimal
floating-point, integer, or decimal constant. If the whole part of
the argument is not within the range of integers, an error is returned.
Any fractional part of the argument is truncated.

Date to Integerdate-expression
An expression that returns a value of the DATE data type. The
result is an INTEGER value representing the date as yyyymmdd.

Time to Integertime-expression
An expression that returns a value of the TIME data type. The
result is an INTEGER value representing the time as hhmmss.

The result of the function is a large integer. If the
argument can be null, the result can be null; if the argument is null,
the result is the null value.
NoteSyntax alternatives: The CAST
specification should be used to increase the portability of applications.
For more information, see CAST specification.
ExampleUsing the EMPLOYEE table, select a list containing salary (SALARY)
divided by education level (EDLEVEL). Truncate any decimal in the
calculation. The list should also contain the values used in the calculation
and the employee number (EMPNO).   SELECT INTEGER(SALARY / EDLEVEL), SALARY, EDLEVEL, EMPNO
    FROM EMPLOYEE

Parent topic: Scalar functions