FORMAT (Format) keyword for physical and logical files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Keyword entries for physical and logical files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Keyword entries for physical and logical files (positions 45 through 80)

FORMAT (Format) keyword for physical and logical files

You can use this record-level keyword to specify
that this record format is to share the field specifications for a previously
defined record format. The name of the record format you are defining must
be the name of the previously defined record format.

The format of the keyword is: FORMAT([library-name/]database-file-name)
The
database-file-name parameter is required. It is the name of the physical or
logical file from which the previously defined record format is taken.
The
library-name is optional. If you do not specify the library-name, the library
list (*LIBL) in effect at file creation time is used.
If you specify
the FORMAT keyword, you cannot specify field specifications for this record
format. Specify key specifications and, if necessary, select/omit specifications
if you want them to be in effect for this file. (They can be the same as or
different from the previously defined record format.)
The FORMAT keyword
is not valid in join logical files and you cannot specify a join logical file
as the parameter value on the FORMAT keyword.
If the database file from
which you are using the record format is deleted, the record format remains
in existence as long as some file is using the record format. For example,
RECORD in FILE2 uses the FORMAT keyword to share the specifications of RECORD
in FILE1. Both files have been created. If FILE1 is deleted and then re-created
with different DDS, RECORD still exists in FILE2. It can be referred to for
the original record format by other files using the FORMAT keyword.
You
cannot specify a distributed data management (DDM) file on this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the FORMAT keyword for a logical file.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R RECORD PFILE(FILE2)
00020A FORMAT(FILE1)
AThe record format for this logical file is the same as
the previously specified record format in file FILE1. The name of this record
format (RECORD) must be the same as the name of the record format in FILE1.