Level-Numbers

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—Data Description Entry > Data Division—Data Description Entry

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—Data Description Entry

Level-Numbers
The level-number specifies the hierarchy of data within a record, and identifies
special-purpose data entries. A level-number begins a data description entry,
a type-name, a renaming or redefining item, or a condition-name entry. A level-number
has a value taken from the set of integers between 1 and 49, or from one of
the special level-numbers, 66, 77, or 88.
level-number
Level-numbers must be followed either by a separator period; or by a
space followed by its associated data-name-1, FILLER, or appropriate data
description clause. Level number 01 and 77 must begin in Area A. Level-number
77 must be followed by a space followed by its associated data-name-1. Level
numbers 02 through 49, 66, and 88 may begin in Area A or B.
Single-digit
level-numbers 1 through 9 may be substituted for level-numbers 01 through
09.

Successive data description entries may start in the same column
as the first or they may be indented according to the level-number. Indentation
does not affect the magnitude of a level-number.

When level-numbers
are indented, each new level-number may begin any number of spaces to the
right of Area A. The extent of indentation to the right is limited only by
the width of Area B.

For more information, see Levels of Data and  Standard Data Format.

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Elementary items or group items that
are immediately subordinate to one group item can have unequal level-numbers. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension
data-name-1
Explicitly identifies the data being described.
If specified, data-name-1
identifies a data item used in the program. The data item must be the first
word following the level-number.

The data item can be changed during
program execution.

Data-name-1 must be specified for:
Level-66, level-77, and level-88 items
Entries containing a GLOBAL, EXTERNAL, or TYPEDEF clause
Record description entries associated with file description entries having
GLOBAL or EXTERNAL clauses.

FILLER
Is a data item that is not explicitly referred to in a program. The
keyword FILLER is optional. If specified, FILLER must be the first word following
the level-number.
The keyword FILLER may be used with a conditional variable,
if explicit reference is never made to the conditional variable but only to
values it may assume. FILLER may not be used with a condition-name or a type-name.

In a MOVE CORRESPONDING statement, or in an ADD CORRESPONDING or SUBTRACT
CORRESPONDING statement, FILLER items are ignored. In an INITIALIZE statement,
elementary FILLER items are ignored.

If data-name-1 or FILLER clause is omitted, the data item being described
is treated as though FILLER had been specified.

Parent topic: Data Division—Data Description Entry