Nested PERFORM Statements

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > PERFORM Statement > Basic PERFORM Statement > Basic PERFORM Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > PERFORM Statement > Basic PERFORM Statement

Nested PERFORM Statements
PERFORM statements may be specified within the performed procedure. If
there are two or more logical paths to the return point, then procedure-name-2
may name a paragraph that consists only of an EXIT statement; all the paths
to the return point must then lead to this paragraph.
When both procedure-name-1 and procedure-name-2 are specified, GO TO and
PERFORM statements can appear within the sequence of statements contained
in these paragraphs or sections. A GO TO statement should not refer to a
procedure-name outside the range of procedure-name-1 through procedure-name-2.
If this is done, results are unpredictable and are not diagnosed.
When only procedure-name-1 is specified, PERFORM and GO TO statements can
appear within the procedure. A GO TO statement should not refer to a procedure-name
outside the range of procedure-name-1. If this is done, results are unpredictable
and are not diagnosed.
When the performed procedures include another PERFORM statement, the sequence
of procedures associated with the embedded PERFORM statement must be totally
included in or totally excluded from the performed procedures of the first
PERFORM statement. That is, an active PERFORM statement whose execution point
begins within the range of performed procedures of another active PERFORM
statement must not allow control to pass through the exit point of the other
active PERFORM statement. In addition, two or more such active PERFORM statements
must not have a common exit.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Two or more active PERFORM statements can have a common
exit point. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension When control passes to the sequence of procedures by means other than a
PERFORM statement, control passes through the exit point to the next executable
statement, as if no PERFORM statement referred to these procedures.

Parent topic: Basic PERFORM Statement