VARBINARY_FORMAT

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

VARBINARY_FORMAT
The VARBINARY_FORMAT function returns a binary string representation
of a character string that has been formatted using a format-string.
VARBINARY_FORMAT(expression,format-string)
expression
An expression that returns a value of any built-in numeric, character-string,
or graphic-string data type. A numeric or graphic argument is cast
to a character string before evaluating the function. For more information
about converting numeric or graphic to a character string, see VARCHAR.All leading and trailing blanks
are removed from expression before evaluating the function.
If
a format-string is specified, the length of expression must
be equal to the length of the format-string and the value of expression must
conform to the template specified by the format-string. If
a format-string is not specified, the value of expression (after
removing leading and trailing blanks) should be an even number of
characters from the ranges '0' to '9', 'a' to 'f', and 'A' to 'F'.
If the length is an odd number of characters, the string is padded
on the right with one '0' character.

format-string
An expression that returns a built-in character string or graphic
string data type. format-string contains a template for how
the value for expression is to be interpreted.The valid
format strings are: 'xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx' and 'XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX'
where each 'x' or 'X' corresponds to one hexadecimal digit in the
result. If 'X' is specified, the corresponding hexadecimal digit must
not be a lower case character. If 'x' is specified, the corresponding
hexadecimal digit must not be an upper case character.

The result of the function is a varying-length binary
string. The length attribute of the result is half the length attribute
of expression. If a format-string is not specified,
the actual length is half the actual length of expression (after
leading and trailing blanks have been removed and padding to an even
number of characters). If a format-string is specified, the
actual length is half the actual length of the format-string (after
removing the non-digit separator characters). If either argument can
be null, the result can be null; if either argument is null, the result
is the null value.
NoteSyntax alternatives: HEXTORAW
is a synonym for VARBINARY_FORMAT except that if the length of expression is
an odd number of characters, the string is padded on the left with
one '0' character. VARCHAR_BIT_FORMAT is a synonym for VARBINARY_FORMAT
except that the result of the function is a varying-length character
string FOR BIT DATA.
ExampleRepresent a Universal Unique Identifier in its binary form:VALUES VARBINARY_FORMAT('d83d6360-1818-11db-9804-b622a1ef5492',
'xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx')
Result
returned:BX'D83D6360181811DB9804B622A1EF5492'

Represent a Universal Unique Identifier in its binary form:VALUES VARBINARY_FORMAT('D83D6360-1818-11DB-9804-B622A1EF5492',
'XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX')
Result
returned:BX'D83D6360181811DB9804B622A1EF5492'

Represent a string of hexadecimal characters in binary form:VALUES VARBINARY_FORMAT('ef01abC9')
Result
returned:BX'EF01ABC9'

Parent topic: Scalar functions