CAnn (Command Attention) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

CAnn (Command Attention) keyword for display files

You use this file-level or record-level keyword to
specify that the function key specified in the keyword (CA01 through CA24)
is available for use.

It is to be used as a command attention (CA) key. No input data
is transmitted from the device. Response indicators 01 through 99 are valid.
See System/36 environment considerations for display files for special considerations
when you specify the CAnn keyword in files
that are used in the System/36 environment.
The format of the
keyword is: CAnn[(response-indicator ['text'])]
If you specify this keyword and the display station user presses
the specified function key, the following situation happens:
All other function key response indicators in the input buffer are set
off (hex F0).

The response indicator, if specified with the CAnn keyword, is set on
(hex F1).

The IBM® i data management
feedback area is updated.

Data already in the input buffer remains unchanged except that the response
indicator (if specified) is set on.

Control is returned to your program.

If you specify a response indicator and the key is pressed, the
response indicator is set on and returned to your program. (The text information
is associated with the indicator and is used by high-level language compilers
to help in program documentation.)
If the display station user presses
a function key and you have not specified it as either a command function
(CF) key or a command attention key, the IBM i operating
system displays a message to the display station user indicating that the
key is not valid at that time.
You can use combinations of CA and CF
keywords within the same display file, but you cannot specify the same key
number as both CA and CF keys. For example, CA02 and CF02 are not valid in
the same display file.
Note: File level CA and CF keys are extended to
the record level. This must be considered when assigning key numbers. For
example, if CA02 is specified at file level and CF02 is specified at record
level, CF02 is an error.
If you specify a key in the range 1 through
9, you must supply the leading zero in the keyword (for example, CA04).
Option
indicators are valid for this keyword.

Validity checkingWhen the display station user
presses a CF key, the data from fields with their MDT set on is placed into
the input buffer before validity checking is done. Any errors in the data
are then detected, and the appropriate error messages are sent to the display.
Because validity checking is not done until after the data is placed in the
input buffer, pressing a valid CA key after the CF key can cause incorrect
data to be returned to your program. This condition is not a problem as long
as your program does not process the input data when the CA key is pressed.
This
condition can be prevented in either of two ways:
Do not allow the use of CA keys. Specify CF keys, which cause validity
checking to be done on the data.

Do not specify any of the following validity checking keywords if CA keys
are allowed: CHECK(M10)
CHECK(M11)
CHECK(VN)
CHECK(VNE)
COMP (EQ, NE, LT, NL, GT, NG, LE, GE)
RANGE
VALUES

Function keys valid for command attention keys at processing
timeAs a general rule, the last output operation
determines which function keys are valid. However, the following list shows
exceptions to this rule:

When an operation sends no data to the display, the validity of various
function keys is not changed. Such operations include:
An output operation to a subfile record

An update to a subfile record

An output operation to a subfile control record that only clears, deletes,
or initializes a subfile without displaying the subfile or the subfile control
record

An output operation that displays an error message by selecting ERRMSG
(Error Message) or ERRMSGID (Error Message ID) can also select a CA or CF
key to be valid while the error message is displayed.

If MNUCNL (Menu Cancel), MNUBARSW (Menu Bar Switch), or SFLDROP (Subfile
Drop) is specified for a subfile, the validity of the CA or CF key specified
for the SFLDROP keyword is determined by the last output operation. However,
as long as the subfile is displayed, the CA or CF key, when valid, acts only
as a Drop key.

If SFLFOLD (Subfile Fold) is specified for a subfile, the validity of
the CA or CF key specified for the SFLFOLD keyword is determined by the last
output operation. However, as long as the subfile is displayed, the CA or
CF key, when valid, acts only as a Fold key.

If two subfiles using SFLDROP or SFLFOLD are displayed at one time, the
same function key should be specified on both the SFLDROP and SFLFOLD keywords.
If they are different, only the key specified for the most recently displayed
subfile is in effect. Pressing the function key affects the subfile containing
the cursor. If the cursor is not positioned in a subfile, the function key
affects the upper subfile.

If two subfiles using SFLENTER (Subfile Enter) are displayed at the same
time, the only CA or CF key in effect as an Enter key is the CA or CF key
specified for the SFLENTER keyword on the most recently displayed subfile.
The cursor position at the time the Enter key is pressed determines which
subfile is affected.

Note: The following keywords function like CA keys: CLEAR, HELP, HOME,
and PRINT (with response indicator specified).

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the CAnn keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00011A CA01(91 'End of Program')
00012A CA02(92)
00013A CA03
A