FRCRATIO parameter

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters > Commonly used parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters

FRCRATIO parameter
The force write ratio (FRCRATIO) parameter specifies the maximum
number of records that can be inserted, updated, or deleted before they are
forced into auxiliary (permanent) storage.
The force write ratio ensures that all inserted, updated, or deleted
records are written into auxiliary storage at least as often as this parameter
specifies. In the event of system failure, the only records likely to be lost
would be those that were inserted, updated, or deleted since the last force
write operation.
The force write ratio is applied to all records inserted,
updated, or deleted in the file through the open data path (ODP) to which
the force write ratio applies. If two programs are sharing the file, SHARE(*YES),
the force write ratio is not applied separately to the set of records inserted,
updated, or deleted by each program. It is applied to any combination of records
(from both programs) that equals the specified force write ratio parameter
value. For example, if a force write ratio of 5 was specified for the file,
any combination of five records from the two programs (such as four from one
program and one from the other) forces the records to be written to auxiliary
storage. If two or more programs are using the file through separate ODPs,
the insertions, updates, and deletions from each program are accumulated individually
for each ODP.
Each database file can have a force write ratio assigned
to it. Logical files, which can access data from more than one physical file,
can specify a more restrictive force write ratio (a smaller number of records)
than that specified for the based-on physical files. However, a logical file
cannot specify a less restrictive force write ratio. If a logical file specifies
a less restrictive force write ratio than that specified for any of the physical
files, the most restrictive force write ratio from the physical files is used
for the logical file. For example, if the force write ratios of three physical
files are 2, 6, and 8, the force write ratio of a logical file based on these
physical files cannot be greater than 2. If no force write ratio is specified
for the logical file, 2 is assumed. Thus, each time a program inserts, updates,
or deletes two records in the logical file (regardless of which physical files
are affected), those records are forced into auxiliary storage.
The
FRCRATIO number overrides the SEQONLY number specified. For example, if you
specify:
OVRDBF ... SEQONLY(*YES 20) FRCRATIO(5)
The value of 20 is overridden and a buffer of five records
is used. When FRCRATIO(1) is used, a buffer still exists, but it contains
only a single record.
Access paths associated with the inserted, updated,
and deleted records are written to auxiliary storage only when all the records
covered by the access path have been written to auxiliary storage. If only
one ODP exists for the file, the access path is forced to auxiliary storage
whenever a forced write occurs. If two or more ODPs to the file exist, the
access path is written to auxiliary storage whenever all the inserted, updated,
and deleted records for all the ODPs have been forced.
Notes: These rules apply only when a force write ratio of 2 or higher is specified.
When a force write ratio of 1 is specified, the access path is not written
to auxiliary storage until all the ODPs have been closed.
If the file is being recorded in a journal, FRCRATIO(*NONE) should be
specified.

Values allowed*NONE
There is no specified ratio; the system determines when the records are
written to auxiliary storage.
number-of-records-before-force
Specify the number of updated, inserted, or deleted records that are processed
before they are explicitly forced to auxiliary storage.

Parent topic: Commonly used parameters

Related information
Journal management and system performance