ILE C/C++ Programmer's Guide

IBM i programming resources > ILE C/C++ > Programmer's Guide > Part 8. Appendixes

IBM i programming resources > ILE C/C++ > Programmer's Guide > Part 8. Appendixes

ILE C/C++ Programmer's Guide
Bibliography
For additional information about topics related to ILE C/400
programming, refer to the following IBM publications:

The IBM iSeries Information Center describes creating and managing
projects defined for the Application Development Manager/400 feature, as well
as using the program to develop applications. View Programmer
information, ADTS.
ADTS for AS/400: Source Entry Utility, SC09-2605-00, provides information about using the Application Development
ToolSet/400 source entry utility (SEU) to create and edit source
members. The manual explains how to start and end an SEU session and
how to use the many features of this full-screen text editor. The
manual contains examples to help both new and experienced users accomplish
various editing tasks, from the simplest line commands to using pre-defined
prompts for high-level languages and data formats.
Application Display Programming, SC41-5715-00, provides information about:

Using DDS to create and maintain displays for applications;
Creating and working with display files on the system;
Creating online help information;
Using UIM to define panels and dialogs for an application;
Using panel groups, records, or documents

Backup and Recovery, SC41-5304-07, provides information about setting up and managing the
following:

Journaling, access path protection, and commitment control
User auxiliary storage pools (ASPs)
Disk protection (device parity, mirrored, and checksum)

Provides performance information about backup media and save/restore
operations. Also includes advanced backup and recovery topics, such as
using save-while-active support, saving and restoring to a different release,
and programming tips and techniques.
CICS for iSeries Application Programming Guide, SC41-5454-02, provides information on application programming for
CICS/400(R). It includes guidance and reference information on the
CICS application programming interface and system programming interface
commands, and gives general information about developing new applications and
migrating existing applications from other CICS platforms.
ILE C/C++ for AS/400 MI Library Reference, SC09-2418-00, provides information on Machine Interface instructions
available in the C for AS/400 compiler that provide system-level programming
capabilities.
CL Programming, SC41-5721-06, provides a wide-ranging discussion of AS/400 programming topics
including a general discussion on objects and libraries, CL programming,
controlling flow and communicating between programs, working with objects in
CL programs, and creating CL programs. Other topics include predefined
and impromptu messages and message handling, defining and creating
user-defined commands and menus, application testing, including debug mode,
breakpoints, traces, and display functions.
Communications Management, SC41-5406-02, provides information about work management in a communications
environment, communications status, tracing and diagnosing communications
problems, error handling and recovery, performance, and specific line speed
and subsystem storage information.
Experience RPG IV Multimedia Tutorial, SK2T-2700, is an
interactive self-study program explaining the differences between RPG III and
RPG IV and how to work within the new ILE environment. An accompanying
workbook provides additional exercises and doubles as a reference upon
completion of the tutorial. ILE RPG code examples are shipped with the
tutorial and run directly on the AS/400.
GDDM Programming Guide, SC41-0536-00, provides information about using OS/400 graphical data display
manager (GDDM(R)) to write graphics application programs. Includes
many example programs and information to help users understand how the product
fits into data processing systems.
GDDM Reference, SC41-3718-00, provides information about using OS/400 graphical data display
manager (GDDM) to write graphics application programs. This manual
provides detailed descriptions of all graphics routines available in
GDDM. Also provides information about high-level language interfaces to
GDDM.
ICF Programming, SC41-5442-00, provides information needed to write application programs that
use AS/400 communications and the OS/400 intersystem communications function
(OS/400-ICF). Also contains information on data description
specifications (DDS) keywords, system-supplied formats, return codes, file
transfer support, and program examples.
IDDU Use, SC41-5704-00, describes how to use the AS/400 interactive data definition
utility (IDDU) to describe data dictionaries, files, and records to the
system. Includes:

An introduction to computer file and data definition concepts
An introduction to the use of IDDU to describe the data used in queries
and documents
Representative tasks related to creating, maintaining, and using data
dictionaries, files, record formats, and fields
Advanced information about using IDDU to work with files created on other
systems and information about error recovery and problem prevention.

WebSphere Development Studio: ILE C/C++ Compiler
Reference, SC09-4816-03, provides reference information for the ILE C/C++
compiler. It includes compiler options, ILE C/C++ macros, preprocessor
directives, and pragmas.
WebSphere Development Studio: ILE C/C++
Language Reference, SC09-7852-00, provides reference information about the ILE C/C++ compiler,
including elements of the language, statements, and preprocessor
directives. Examples are provided and considerations for programming
are also discussed.
Standard C/C++ Library Reference, SC09-4949-01, provides reference information about the standard
C/C++ language, statements, and preprocessor directives.
ILE C/C++ Run-Time Library Functions, SC41-5607-02, provides reference information about C for AS/400 library
functions, including Standard C library functions and C for AS/400 library
extensions. Examples are provided and considerations for programming
are also discussed.
WebSphere Development Studio: ILE COBOL
Programmer's Guide, SC09-2540-04, provides information about how to write, compile, bind, run,
debug, and maintain ILE COBOL programs on the AS/400 system. It
provides programming information on how to call other ILE COBOL and non-ILE
COBOL programs, share data with other programs, use pointers, and handle
exceptions. It also describes how to perform input/output operations on
externally attached devices, database files, display files, and ICF
files.
WebSphere Development Studio: ILE COBOL
Reference, SC09-2539-04, provides a description of the ILE COBOL programming
language. It provides information on the structure of the ILE COBOL
programming language and the structure of an ILE COBOL source program.
It also provides a description of all Identification Division paragraphs,
Environment Division clauses, Data Division clauses, Procedure Division
statements, and Compiler-Directing statements.
ILE Concepts, SC41-5606-07, explains concepts and terminology pertaining to the Integrated
Language Environment architecture of the OS/400 licensed program.
Topics covered include creating modules, binding, running programs, debugging
programs, and handling exceptions.
WebSphere Development Studio: ILE RPG
Programmer's Guide, SC09-2507-05, provides information about the ILE RPG programming
language, which is an implementation of the RPG IV language in the Integrated
Language Environment (ILE) on the AS/400 system. It includes
information on creating and running programs, with considerations for
procedure calls and interlanguage programming. The guide also covers
debugging and exception handling and explains how to use AS/400 files and
devices in RPG programs. Appendixes include information on migration to
RPG IV and sample compiler listings. It is intended for people with a
basic understanding of data processing concepts and of the RPG
language.
WebSphere Development Studio: ILE RPG
Reference, SC09-2508-05, provides information about the ILE RPG programming
language. This manual describes, position by position and keyword by
keyword, the valid entries for all RPG IV specifications, and provides a
detailed description of all the operation codes and built-in functions.
This manual also contains information on the RPG logic cycle, arrays and
tables, editing functions, and indicators.
Local Device Configuration, SC41-5121-00, provides information about configuring local devices on the
AS/400 system. This includes information on how to configure the
following:

Local work station controllers (including twinaxial controllers)
Tape controllers
Locally attached devices (including twinaxial devices)

Machine Interface Functional Reference, SC41-5810-00, describes the machine interface instruction set.
Describes the functions that can be performed by each instruction and also the
necessary information to code each instruction.
Printer Device Programming, SC41-5713-06, provides information to help you understand and control
printing. Provides specific information on printing elements and
concepts of the AS/400 system, printer file and print spooling support for
printing operations, and printer connectivity. Includes considerations
for using personal computers, other printing functions such as Business
Graphics Utility (BGU), advanced function printing (AFP), and examples of
working with the AS/400 system printing elements such as how to move spooled
output files from one output queue to a different output queue. Also
includes an appendix of control language (CL) commands used to manage printing
workload. Fonts available for use with the AS/400 system are also
provided. Font substitution tables provide a cross-reference of
substituted fonts if attached printers do not support application-specified
fonts.
REXX/400 Programmer's Guide, SC41-5728-00, provides a wide-ranging discussion of programming with REXX on
the iSeries system. Its primary purpose is to provide useful
programming information and examples to those who are new to Procedures
Language 400/REXX and to provide those who have used REXX in other computing
environments with information about the Procedures Language 400/REXX
implementation.
WebSphere Development Studio: ILE RPG
Programmer's Guide, SC09-2507-05, provides information needed to design, code, compile,
and test RPG programs on the iSeries system. The manual provides
information on data structures, data formats, file processing, multiple file
processing, the automatic report function, RPG command statements, testing and
debugging functions, application design techniques, problem analysis, and
compiler service information. The differences between the RPG for
AS/400 compiler, the System/38(R) environment RPG III compiler, and the
System/36(R)-compatible RPG II compiler are also discussed.
iSeries Security Reference, SC41-5302-07, tells how system security support can be used to protect the
system and the data from being used by people who do not have the proper
authorization, protect the data from intentional or unintentional damage or
destruction, keep security information up-to-date, and set up security on the
system.
Local Device Configuration, SC41-5121-00, provides step-by-step procedures for initial installation,
installing licensed programs, program temporary fixes (PTFs), and secondary
languages from IBM. This manual is also for users who already have an
AS/400 system with an installed release and want to install a new
release.
The IBM iSeries Information Center provides information for the
experienced application and system programmers who want to use the OS/400
application programming interfaces (APIs), as well as examples to help the
programmer use APIs. View Programmer information, APIs.

[ Top of Page | Previous Page | Table of Contents ]

(C) Copyright IBM Corporation 1992, 2005. All Rights Reserved.