SUM

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Aggregate functions > Aggregate functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Aggregate functions

SUM
The SUM function returns the sum of a set of numbers.
SUM(ALLDISTINCTnumeric-expression)
numeric-expression
An expression that returns a value of any built-in
numeric, character-string, or graphic-string data type. If the argument
is a character-string or graphic-string, it is cast to DECFLOAT(34)
before evaluating the function.

The data type of the result is the same as the data type
of the argument values except that the result is:
DECFLOAT(34) if the argument values are DECFLOAT(16).
A double-precision floating point if the argument values are single-precision
floating point
A large integer if the argument values are small integers
A decimal with precision mp and scale s if
the argument values are decimal or nonzero scale binary numbers with
precision p and scale s.

For information about the values of p, s,
and mp, see Decimal arithmetic in SQL.
The function is applied to the set of values derived from
the argument values by the elimination of null values. If DISTINCT
is specified, duplicate values are eliminated.
The order in which the values are added is undefined,
but every intermediate result must be within the range of the result
data type.
NotesResults involving DECFLOAT special values: If
the data type of the argument is decimal floating-point and a special
value of sNaN or -sNaN, or both +Infinity and -Infinity are included
in the aggregation, an error is signaled. Otherwise, if +NaN or -NaN
is found, the result is +NaN or -NaN. If +Infinity or -Infinity is
found, the result is +Infinity or -Infinity.
ExampleUsing the EMPLOYEE table, set the host variable JOB_BONUS (DECIMAL(9,2))
to the total bonus (BONUS) paid to clerks (JOB='CLERK'). SELECT SUM(BONUS)
INTO :JOB_BONUS
FROM EMPLOYEE
WHERE JOB = 'CLERK'
Results
in JOB_BONUS being set to 4000.

Parent topic: Aggregate functions