Control Specifications

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Specifications

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications

Control Specifications

The control-specification
statements, identified in free-form specifications by the CTL-OPT
operation code, or in fixed-form specifications by an H in position
6, provide information about generating and running programs. However,
there are three different ways in which this information can be provided
to the compiler and the compiler searches for this information in
the following order:
Control
statements included
in your source

A data area named RPGLEHSPEC
in *LIBL

A data area named DFTLEHSPEC in QRPGLE

Once one of these sources is found, the values are assigned and
keywords that are not specified are assigned their default values.

See the description of the individual entries for their default
values.

Note: Compile-option
keywords do
not have default values. The keyword value is initialized with the
value you specify for the CRTBNDRPG or CRTRPGMOD command.

Tip: The control
specification keywords apply at the module level. This means that
if there is more than one procedure coded in a module, the values
specified in the control specification apply to all procedures.

Control statements in a source file
If you specify
the control statements in your source file, the following rules apply:

Control statements can be specified on multiple lines. A free-form
control statement begins with CTL-OPT and ends with a semi-colon.
A fixed-form control statement contains one or more fixed form specifications
with H in column 6.

You can mix free-form and fixed-form control statements.

If you code more than one control statement, and a particular
keyword cannot be repeated, such as the ALWNULL keyword, then that
keyword can appear in at most one control statement.

Using a Data Area as a Control Specification

Free-Form Control Statement

Traditional Control-Specification Statement

Control-Specification Keywords

Control Specifications Help

Control Specifications

Control-Specification Keywords

Control-Specification Compile-Option Keywords

Parent topic: Specifications