References to LOB or XML locator variables

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Variables > References to LOB or XML variables > References to LOB or XML variables

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Variables > References to LOB or XML variables

References to LOB or XML locator variables
A LOB or XML locator variable is a variable
that contains the locator representing a LOB or XML value on the application
server.
LOB or XML locator variables can be defined
in the following host languages:
C
C++
ILE RPG
ILE COBOL
PL/I (LOB only)

See Manipulating large objects with locators for information
about how locators can be used to manipulate LOB and XML values.
A locator variable in an SQL statement must
identify a LOB or XML locator variable described in the program according
to the rules for declaring locator variables. This is always indirectly
through an SQL statement. For example, in C:
static volatile SQL TYPE IS CLOB_LOCATOR *loc1;

Like all other variables, a LOB or XML locator
variable can have an associated indicator variable. Indicator variables
for LOB or XML locator variables behave in the same way as indicator
variables for other data types. When a null value is returned from
the database, the indicator variable is set and the variable is unchanged.
When the indicator variable associated with a LOB or XML locator is
null, the value of the referenced LOB or XML is null. This means that
a locator can never point to a null value.
If a locator variable does not currently represent any
value, an error occurs when the locator variable is referenced.
At transaction commit or any transaction termination,
all LOB or XML locators that were acquired by the transaction are
released.
It is the application programmer's responsibility
to guarantee that any LOB or XML locator is only used in SQL statements
that are executed at the same application server that originally generated
the LOB or XML locator. For example, assume that a LOB locator is
returned from one application server and assigned to a LOB locator
variable. If that LOB locator variable is subsequently used in an
SQL statement that is executed at a different application server,
unpredictable results will occur.

Parent topic: References to LOB or XML variables