Graphic Format

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Data Types and Data Formats > Character Data Type > Character Data Type

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Data Types and Data Formats > Character Data Type

Graphic Format

The graphic format is a character string where each character is represented
by 2 bytes where all characters are part of a specific
double-byte characer set.

Note:
For information on the UCS-2 (Unicode) format which also uses double-byte
characters, see UCS-2 Format.

Fields defined as graphic data do not contain shift-out (SO) or shift-in
(SI) characters. The difference between single byte character and double byte
graphic data is shown in the following figure:

Figure 1. Comparing Single-byte and
graphic data

The length of a graphic field, in bytes, is two times the number of graphic
characters in the field.

The fixed-length graphic format is a character string with a set length
where each character is represented by 2 bytes.

For information on the variable-length graphic format, see Variable-Length Character, Graphic and UCS-2 Formats.

You define a graphic field by specifying the
GRAPH or VARGRAPH keyword in a free-form definition or by specifying G in the Data-Type entry
of a fixed-form specification. You can also define one using the LIKE keyword
on the definition specification where the parameter is a graphic field.

You can specify the default CCSID for graphic fields
using the CCSID(*GRAPH) keyword
on a Control statement or a /SET directive.
You can also specify the CCSID explicitly using the
Definition statement CCSID keyword.

Note:
You cannot specify the CCSID keyword explicitly for a graphic
definition if CCSID(*GRAPH:*IGNORE) is in effect.
CCSID(*GRAPH:*IGNORE) is not in effect if either of the
following is true:

Keyword CCSID(*EXACT) is specified on a Control statement.

Keyword CCSID(*GRAPH) is specified on a Control statement
with a value other than *IGNORE.

The default initialization value for graphic data is X'4040'. The
value of *HIVAL is X'FFFF', and the value of *LOVAL is X'0000'.

Note: The examples of graphic literals in this manual
are not valid graphic literals. They use the letter 'o' to represent the shift-out
character and the letter 'i' to represent the shift-in character. Often the
graphic data is expressed as D1D2 or AABB; these are not valid double-byte
characters. Normally, graphic literals are entered using a DBCS-capable keyboard
that automatically enters the shift-out and shift-in characters before and
after the DBCS characters are entered.

Parent topic: Character Data Type