common-table-expression

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > select-statement > select-statement

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > select-statement

common-table-expression
A common-table-expression permits
defining a result table with a table-identifier that
can be specified as a table name in any FROM clause of the fullselect
that follows. Multiple common table expressions can be specified following
the single WITH keyword. Each common table expression specified can
also be referenced by name in the FROM clause of subsequent common
table expressions.
table-identifier(,column-name)AS(fullselect)search-clausecycle-clausesearch-clauseSEARCHDEPTH FIRSTBREADTH FIRSTBY,column-nameSETseq-column-namecycle-clauseCYCLE,column-nameSETcycle-column-nameTOconstantDEFAULTconstantUSINGusing-column-name
If a list of columns is specified, it must consist of
as many names as there are columns in the result table of the fullselect.
Each column-name must be unique and unqualified.
If these column names are not specified, the names are derived from
the select list of the subselect used to define the common table expression.
The table-identifier of a common
table expression must be different from any other common table expression table-identifier in
the same statement. A common table expression table-identifier can
be specified as a table name in any FROM clause throughout the fullselect.
A table-identifier of a common table expression
overrides any existing table, view, or alias (in the catalog) with
the same unqualified name or any table-identifier specified
for a trigger.
If more than one common table expression is defined in
the same statement, cyclic references between the common table expressions
are not permitted. A cyclic reference occurs
when two common table expressions dt1 and dt2 are
created such that dt1 refers to dt2 and dt2 refers
to dt1.
The table name of a common table
expression can only be referenced in the select-statement,
INSERT statement, or CREATE VIEW statement that defines it.
If a select-statement, INSERT
statement, or CREATE VIEW statement refers to an unqualified table
name, the following rules are applied to determine which table is
actually being referenced:
If the unqualified name corresponds to one or more common table
expression names that are specified in the select-statement,
the name identifies the common table expression that is in the innermost
scope.
If in a CREATE TRIGGER statement and the unqualified name corresponds
to a transition table name, the name identifies that transition table.
Otherwise, the name identifies a persistent table, a temporary
table, or a view that is present in the default schema.

A common-table-expression can
be used:
In place of a view to avoid creating the view (when general use
of the view is not required and positioned UPDATE or DELETE is not
used)
To enable grouping by a column that is derived from a scalar-fullselect
or function that is not deterministic
When the required result table is based on variables
When the same result table needs to be shared in a fullselect
When the result needs to be derived using recursion

If
a fullselect of a common table expression
contains a reference to itself in a FROM clause, the common table
expression is a recursive table expression.
Queries using recursion are useful in supporting applications such
as bill of materials (BOM), reservation systems, and network planning.
The following restrictions must be true of a recursive common-table-expression:
Each fullselect that is part of the recursion cycle must start
with SELECT or SELECT ALL. Use of SELECT DISTINCT is not allowed.
The UNION ALL set operator must be specified.
A list of column-names must be specified
following the table-identifier of the common-table-expression.
The first fullselect of the first union (the initialization fullselect)
must not include a reference to the common-table-expression itself
in any FROM clause.
Each fullselect that is part of the recursion cycle must
not include any aggregate functions, GROUP BY clauses, or HAVING clauses.
The FROM clauses of these fullselects can include at most
one reference to a common-table-expression that
is part of a recursion cycle.
The table being defined in the common-table-expression cannot
be referenced in a subquery of a fullselect that defines the common-table-expression.
LEFT OUTER JOIN and FULL OUTER JOIN are not allowed if the common-table-expression is
the right operand. RIGHT OUTER JOIN and FULL OUTER JOIN are not allowed
if the common-table-expression is the left
operand.
Each fullselect other than the initialization fullselect that
is part of the recursion cycle must not include an ORDER BY clause.

If a column name of the common-table-expression is
referred to in the iterative fullselect, the attributes of
the result columns are determined using the rules for result columns.
For more information see Rules for result data types.
search-clause
The SEARCH clause in the definition of the recursive common-table-expression is
used to specify the order in which the result rows are to be returned. SEARCH DEPTH FIRST
Each
parent or containing item appears in the result before the items that
it contains.
SEARCH BREADTH FIRST
Sibling items are grouped
before subordinate items.
BY column-name,…
Identifies the columns that associate the parent and
child relationship of the recursive query. Each column-name must
unambiguously identify a column of the parent. The column must not
be a DATALINK or XML column. The rules for unambiguous column references
are the same as in the other clauses of the fullselect. See Column name qualifiers to avoid ambiguity for more information. The column-name must
identify a column name of the recursive common-table-expression.
The column-name must not be qualified.

SET seq-column-name
Specifies the name of a result column that contains an ordinal
number of the current row in the recursive query result. The data
type of the seq-column-name is BIGINT. The seq-column-name may
only be referenced in the ORDER BY clause of the outer fullselect
that references the common-table-expression.
The seq-column-name cannot be referenced
in the fullselect that defines the common-table-expression.
The seq-column-name must
not be the same as using-column-name or cycle-column-name.

cycle-clause
The CYCLE clause in the definition of the recursive common-table-expression is
used to prevent an infinite loop in the recursive query when the parent
and child relationship of the data results in a loop. CYCLE column-name,…
Specifies
the list of columns that represent the parent/child join relationship
values for the recursion. Any new row from the query is first checked
for a duplicate value (per these column names) in the existing rows
that lead to this row in the recursive query results to determine
if there is a cycle. Each column-name must
identify a result column of the common table expression. It must not
be an XML or DataLink column. The same column-name must
not be specified more than once.

SET cycle-column-name
Specifies the name of a result column that is set based on whether
a cycle has been detected in the recursive query: If a duplicate row is encountered, indicating that a cycle has
been detected in the data, the cycle-column-name is
set to the TO constant.
If a duplicate row is not encountered, indicating that a cycle
has not been detected in the data, the cycle-column-name is
set to the DEFAULT constant.

The data type of the cycle-column-name is
CHAR(1). When cyclic data in the row is encountered, the duplicate
row is not returned to the recursive query process for further recursion
and that child branch of the query is stopped. By specifying the provided cycle-column-name is
in the result set of the main fullselect, the existence of cyclic
data can actually be determined and even corrected if that is wanted.
The cycle-column-name must
not be the same as using-column-name or seq-column-name.
The cycle-column-name can
be referenced in the fullselect that defines the common-table-expression.

TO constant
Specifies a CHAR(1) constant value to assign to the cycle-column if
a cycle has been detected in the data. The TO constant must
not be equal to the DEFAULT constant.
DEFAULT constant
Specifies a CHAR(1) constant value to assign to the cycle-column if
a cycle has not been detected in the data. The DEFAULT constant must
not be equal to the TO constant.
USING using-column-name
Identifies the temporary results consisting of the columns from
the CYCLE column list. The temporary result is used by the database
manager to identify duplicate rows in the query result. The using-column-name must
not be the same as cycle-column-name or seq-column-name.

When developing recursive common table expressions, remember
that an infinite recursion cycle (loop) can be created. Ensure that
recursion cycles will end. This is especially important if the data
involved is cyclic. A recursive common table expression is expected
to include a predicate that will prevent an infinite loop. The recursive
common table expression is expected to include:In the iterative fullselect, an integer column incremented
by a constant.
A predicate in the WHERE clause of the iterative fullselect in
the form "counter_col < constant" or "counter_col < :hostvar".

A warning is issued if this syntax is not found in the
recursive common table expression.
Recursive common table expressions are not allowed if
the query specifies:
a distributed table,
a table with a read trigger, or
a logical file built over multiple physical file members.

Recursion example: bill of materials
Bill of materials (BOM) applications are a common requirement
in many business environments. To illustrate the capability of a recursive
common table expression for BOM applications, consider a table of
parts with associated subparts and the quantity of subparts required
by the part.

Parent topic: select-statement