Debugging ILE programs

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging CL programs and procedures

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures

Debugging ILE programs
To debug your Integrated Language Environment® (ILE)
programs, use the ILE source debugger.
You can perform the following tasks:
Prepare your ILE program for debugging
Start a debug session
Add and remove programs from a debug session
View the program source from a debug session
Set and remove conditional and unconditional breakpoints
Step through a program
Display the value of variables
Change the value of variables
Display the attributes of variables
Equate a shorthand name to a variable, expression, or debug command.

While debugging and testing your programs, ensure that your library
list is changed to direct the programs to a test library containing test data
so that any existing real data is not affected.
You can prevent database
files in production libraries from being modified unintentionally by using
one of the following commands:
Use the Start Debug (STRDBG) command and retain the
default *NO for the UPDPROD parameter.
Use the Change Debug (CHGDBG) command.

The ILE source debugger is used to detect errors in and eliminate
errors from program objects and service programs. You can use the source debugger
to:
Debug any ILE CL or mixed ILE language application
Monitor the flow of a program by using the debug commands while the program
is running.
View the program source
Set and remove conditional and unconditional breakpoints
Step through a specified number of statements
Display or change the value of variables
Display the attributes of a variable

When a program stops because of a breakpoint or a step command, the
applicable module object's view is shown on the display at the point where
the program stopped. At this point you can enter more debug commands.
Before
you can use the source debugger, you must use the debug options parameter
(DBGVIEW) when you create a module object or program object using Create
CL Module (CRTCLMOD) or Create Bound CL (CRTBNDCL).
After you set the breakpoints or other ILE source debugger options, you can
call the program.

Debug commands
Many debug commands are available for use with the Integrated
Language Environment (ILE) source debugger.
Preparing a program object for a debug session
Before you can use the Integrated Language
Environment (ILE) source debugger, you must prepare the program object.
Starting the ILE source debugger
After you create the debug view, you can begin debugging your application
using the Integrated
Language Environment (ILE) source debugger.
Adding program objects to a debug session
After you start a debug session, you can add more program objects
to the session.
Removing program objects from a debug session
After you start a debug session, you can remove program objects
from the session.
Viewing the program source
To view the source of a program object, use the Display
Module Source display.
Setting and removing breakpoints
Breakpoints stop a program object at a specific
point when the program is running.
Using instruction stepping
After a breakpoint is encountered, you can run a specified number
of statements of a program object, then stop the program again.
Displaying variables
To display the value of a variable, use the Display
Module Source display or the EVAL debug command.
Changing the value of variables
To change the value of a variable, use the EVAL command
with the assignment operator (=).
Displaying variable attributes
The variable attributes are the size (in bytes)
and type of the variable. To display the attributes, use the Attribute (ATTR)
debug command.
Equating a name with a variable, an expression, or a command
To equate a name with a variable, an expression,
or a debug command for shorthand use, use the EQUATE debug command.
Source debug and i5/OS globalization
When you are working with source debug, be aware
of certain conditions regarding i5/OS® globalization.
Operations that temporarily remove steps
When you use certain control language (CL) commands
to specify your library or program, breakpoints or steps might be temporarily
removed from a program while debugging.

Parent topic: Debugging CL programs and procedures

Related tasks
Starting debug mode

Related reference
Parameter values used for testing and debugging

Related information
Change Debug (CHGDBG) command
Start Debug (STRDBG) command
CL command finder
ILE Concepts