SFLFOLD (Subfile Fold) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

SFLFOLD (Subfile Fold) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword on
the subfile-control record format to assign a command attention (CA) key or
a command function (CF) key that the workstation user can press to truncate
or fold subfile records that require more than one display line.

The format of the keyword is: SFLFOLD(CAnn | CFnn)
When
the SFLFOLD keyword is specified, the subfile is first displayed in folded
form. When the workstation user presses the specified key, the IBM® i operating
system displays the records again in truncated form. By pressing the specified
key, the form of the displayed subfile changes from one state to the other.
When truncated, subfile records fit on one display line.
Without SFLFOLD,
the IBM i operating system
displays the entire subfile record folded where needed but the workstation
user is not given the option to display the subfile record in truncated form.
In
the folded form, as many records are displayed as are specified on the SFLPAG
keyword. In the truncated form, more records are displayed than are specified
on the SFLPAG keyword.
The IBM i operating
system truncates subfile records in the middle of output-only fields. However,
if the truncation is in the middle of an input-capable field, the whole field
is omitted from the display. If this results in omitting the entire record
from the display, an error message is sent to the display and the record is
not truncated. Instead, it is displayed in folded form. Notes:
A warning message (severity 10) is sent at file creation if the entire
record fits on a single display line.

If subfile size equals subfile page, an error message (severity 20) is
issued and SFLFOLD is ignored. When several display sizes are used (DSPSIZ
keyword specified), SFLFOLD is ignored only for display sizes for which the
subfile size equals subfile page. If the subfile record format contains field
selection, SFLFOLD is not valid.

If the subfile contains input-capable fields, it is recommended that you
specify a CF key rather than a CA key. If you specify a CA key in this situation,
changed data is lost when the key is pressed.

If several subfiles using SFLFOLD are displayed at one time, the same
function key should be specified on each SFLFOLD keyword. If the function
keys are different, only the key specified for the most recently displayed
subfile is in effect. Pressing the function key affects the subfile containing
the cursor. If the cursor is not positioned in a subfile, the function key
affects the upper subfile.

SFLFOLD can be specified on the same subfile-control record format as
the SFLDROP keyword. If both keywords are active, SFLFOLD is used. Indicators
are checked at the time the subfile is displayed. Both keywords must use the
same key.

Option indicators are valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the SFLFOLD keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R SFLR SFL
00020A*
00030A* (subfile records should not fit on one screen line)
00040A R SFLCTLR SFLCTL(SFLR)
00050A SFLPAG(17)
00060A SFLSIZ(34)
00070A SFLDSP SFLDSPCTL
00080A SFLFOLD(CF03)
AWhen the subfile is displayed, the workstation user can
press the CF03 key to change the subfile from folded to truncated form and
from truncated to folded form.