Example

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > PERFORM Statement > PERFORM with VARYING Phrase > Varying Two Identifiers > Varying Two Identifiers

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > PERFORM Statement > PERFORM with VARYING Phrase > Varying Two Identifiers

Example
PERFORM procedure-name-1 THROUGH procedure-name-2
VARYING identifier-2 FROM identifier-3
BY identifier-4 UNTIL condition-1
AFTER identifier-5 FROM identifier-6
BY identifier-7 UNTIL condition-2

identifier-2 and identifier-5 are
set to their initial values, identifier-3 and identifier-6, respectively.
condition-1 is evaluated as follows:
If it is false, steps 3 through 7 are executed.
If it is true, control passes directly to the statement following the
PERFORM statement.

condition-2 is evaluated as follows:
If it is false, steps 4 through 6 are executed.
If it is true, identifier-2 is augmented by identifier-4, identifier-5
is set to the current value of identifier-6, and step 2 is repeated.

procedure-name-1 and everything up to and including procedure-name-2 (if specified) are executed once.
identifier-5 is augmented by identifier-7.
Steps 3 through 5 are
repeated until condition-2 is true.
Steps 2 through 6 are repeated
until condition-1 is true.

At the end of PERFORM statement execution:
identifier-5 contains the current value of identifier-6.
identifier-2 has a value that exceeds the last-used
setting by the increment/decrement value (unless condition-1 was true at the
beginning of PERFORM statement execution, in which case, identifier-2 contains
the current value of identifier-3).

Figure 1 illustrates the logic of the PERFORM statement when
two identifiers are varied with TEST BEFORE. Figure 2 illustrates
the logic of the PERFORM statement when two identifiers are varied with TEST
AFTER.
Figure 1. Varying Two Identifiers—with TEST BEFORE
The previous figure assumes that identifier-5 and identifier-2 are not
related. If one is dependent on the other (through subscripting, for example),
the results may be predictable but generally undesirable.
Figure 2. Varying Two Identifiers—with TEST AFTER

Parent topic: Varying Two Identifiers