JOB parameter

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters > Commonly used parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters

JOB parameter
The JOB parameter specifies the name of the job to which the command
is applied.
The job name identifies all types of jobs on the system. Each
job is identified by a qualified job name, which has the following format:
job-number/user-name/job-name
Note: Although
the syntax is similar, job names are qualified differently than i5/OS® object
names.

The following list describes the pieces of the qualified
job name:
Job number: The job number is a unique 6-digit number that is assigned
to each job by the system. The job number provides a unique qualifier if the
job name is not otherwise unique. The job number can be determined by means
of the Display Job (DSPJOB) command. If specified, the
job number must have exactly six digits.
User name: The user name identifies the user profile under which the job
is to run. The user name is the same as the name of the user profile and contains
a maximum of 10 alphanumeric characters. The name can come from one of several
sources, again, depending on the type of job: Batch job: The user name is specified on the SBMJOB command, or it is
specified in the job description referenced by the BCHJOB or SBMJOB commands.
Interactive job: The user name is specified at sign-on, or the user name
is provided from the default in the job description referred to by the work
station's job entry.
Autostart job: The user name is specified in the job description referred
to by the job entry for the autostart job.

Job name: The job name can contain a maximum of 10 alphanumeric characters,
of which the first character must be alphabetic. The name can come from one
of three sources, depending on the type of job: Batch job: The job name is specified on the Batch Job (BCHJOB) or Submit
Job (SBMJOB) commands or, if not specified there, the unqualified
name of the job description is used.
Interactive job: The job name is the same as the name of the device (work
station) from which the sign-on was performed.
Autostart job: The job name is provided in the autostart job entry in
the subsystem description under which the job runs. The job name was specified
in the Add Autostart Job Entry (ADDAJE) command.

Commands only require that the simple name be used to identify the
job. However, additional qualification must be used if the simple job name
is not unique.

Duplicate job namesIf a duplicate job name is specified
in a command in an interactive job, the system displays all of the
duplicates of the specified job name to the user in qualified form. The job
names are displayed in qualified form along with the user name and job number
so that you can further identify the job that is to be specified in a command.
You can then enter the correct qualified job name.
If a
duplicate job name is used in a command in a batch job, the command
is not processed. Instead, an error message is written to the job log.
The
JOB parameter can have one or more of the following values, depending upon
the command:

Values allowed*
The job is the one in which the command is entered; that is, the command
with JOB(*) specified on it.
*JOBD
The simple job name is the unqualified name of the job description.
*NONE
No job name is specified as in the Display Log (DSPLOG) command.
job-name
A simple job name is specified.
qualified-job-name
You must specify a qualified job name. If no job qualifier (user name
and job number) is given, all of the jobs currently in the system are searched
for the job name. If duplicates of the specified name are found, a qualified
job name must be specified.

Parent topic: Commonly used parameters

Related concepts
Simple and qualified object names