Decimal positions for physical and logical files (positions 36 and
37)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Define physical and logical files using DDS > Positional entries for physical and logical files (positions 1 through 44)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Define physical and logical files using DDS > Positional entries for physical and logical files (positions 1 through 44)

Decimal positions for physical and logical files (positions 36 and
37)

You use these positions to specify the decimal placement
within a packed decimal, zoned decimal, binary, or floating-point field.

If you specify the CONCAT keyword for the field you are defining,
you cannot specify decimal positions. A field in the physical file that contains
decimal positions cannot be included in a concatenated field.
Note: High-level
languages can impose specific length and value restrictions on the decimal
positions. Observe these restrictions for files used by those high-level languages.

Using decimal position with physical filesFor a
physical file, use these positions to specify the decimal placement within
a packed decimal, zoned decimal, binary, or floating-point field. Specify
a decimal number from 0 through 63 for the number of decimal positions to
the right of the decimal point. (The number must not be greater than the number
of digits specified in the field length.) The Positional entries for physical
and logical files (positions 1 through 44) topic shows how to code the decimal
positions field. If the field length is greater than 9 for a binary field,
the decimal positions value must be 0.
The data is actually stored in
the system without a decimal point. The decimal point is only implied. For
example, the value stored for 1.23 is 123. This is what appears in display
or printer files if editing is not specified.
To override the position
of a referenced field (R in position 29), specify either a new value or a
change in position. To increase the position, specify +n, where n is
the amount of increase. To decrease the position, specify -n, where n is
the amount of decrease. For example, an entry of +4 indicates that there are
4 more digits to the right of the decimal point than were in the referenced
field. An error message is sent if the number of decimal positions is greater
than the maximum allowed.

Using decimal position with logical filesFor logical
files, specify decimal positions only to override or change the decimal positions
of the corresponding field in the physical file on which this logical file
is based. If you leave these positions blank, the field you are defining has
the same decimal positions as the corresponding field in the physical file
on which this logical file is based.
To override or change the placement
of the decimal point within a packed decimal or zoned decimal field, specify
a number from 0 through 63 to indicate the number of decimal positions to
the right of the decimal point. The number here must not be greater than the
number of digits specified in the field length. You cannot override or change
decimals when the corresponding field in the physical file is binary (data
type B) and contains decimal positions greater than zero. When the logical
file field is binary and the corresponding field in the physical file is not
binary (B specified in position 35 in the logical file), the decimal positions
must be zero for the binary field.
You can override the position of
the field by specifying a new value or by specifying an increase or decrease
in position. To increase the position, specify +n, where n is the amount
of increase. To decrease the position, specify -n, where n is the amount
of decrease. For example, an entry of +4 indicates that there are 4 more digits
to the right of the decimal point than were in the referenced field.
If
you specify a value in positions 36 through 37 and your program writes or
retrieves data through the logical file field to the physical file field,
the operating system aligns the data on the decimal point. Depending on the
case, this can cause the decimal values to be truncated, or it can cause a
data conversion error. Decimal values are truncated in the following cases:

When reading from a logical file that reduces the number of decimal positions
specified in the physical file

When writing to a logical file that increases the number of decimal positions
specified in the physical file

For example, if the physical file field is defined as 4 digits
long with 2 decimal positions, and the logical file field decreases the decimal
positions to 0 decimal positions, a value of 0.20 in the physical file becomes
a value of 0 in the logical file, and a value of 2.52 in the physical file
becomes a value of 2 in the logical file.
When decimal values are truncated,
the left side of the field is filled with zeros.
A data conversion error
can occur in the following cases:
When writing to a logical file that reduces the number of decimal positions
specified in the physical file

When reading from a logical file that increases the number of decimal
positions specified in the physical file

The data conversion error occurs because too many
digits might be moved into the space available to the left of the decimal
point. For example, if, as in the previous example, the physical file field
is defined as 4 digits long with 2 decimal positions and the logical file
field decreases the decimal positions to 0 decimal positions, a value of 3322
written to the logical file cannot fit in the physical file. This value does
not fit because only 2 digits are allowed left of the decimal point in the
physical file.
To avoid data conversion errors, increase or decrease
the length (positions 30 through 34) of the logical file field by the same
amount that you increase or decrease the decimal positions.