FILE STATUS Clause

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Environment Division > Input-Output Section > Input-Output Section

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Environment Division > Input-Output Section

FILE STATUS Clause
The FILE STATUS clause monitors the execution of each input-output
request for the file.

FILE STATUS Clause - Format

>>-+------+--STATUS--+----+--data-name-1--+-----------------+--><
   '-FILE-' '-IS-' | (1) |   
    '-data-name-5-----'   

Notes:IBM® ExtensionWhen the FILE STATUS clause is specified, the system moves a value
into the status key data item after each input-output request that
explicitly or implicitly refers to this file. The value indicates
the status of execution of the statement. (See the "Status Key" description
under Common Processing Facilities.)
When the compiler generates code to block output records or unblock
input records, file status values that are caused by operating system
exceptions are set only when a block is processed. See Appendix F. File Structure Support Summary and Status Key Values for a description of the possible
values. See the IBM Rational® Development Studio
for i: ILE COBOL Programmer's Guide for more information on
blocking output records and unblocking input records. data-name-1
The status key data item must be defined in the Data Division
as a 2-character alphanumeric item. Data-name-1 must not be defined
in the File Section. Data-name-1 can be qualified.

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension data-name-5
An optional status key data item may be specified for file processing. For
transaction files, the data item must be a 4-character alphanumeric
item.
For non-transaction files, the data item must be a 6-byte
group item. The item is treated as documentation for all non-transaction
files except for those that are dynamically created. Extended file
status is set to 0900 for files that are created dynamically when
OPEN OUTPUT is specified. Data-name-5 can be qualified.

End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

Parent topic: Input-Output Section