DBCLOB

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

DBCLOB
The DBCLOB function returns a graphic-string representation.
Integer to DBCLOB
DBCLOB(integer-expression)
Decimal to DBCLOB
DBCLOB(decimal-expression,decimal-character)
Floating-point to DBCLOB
DBCLOB(floating-point-expression,decimal-character)
Decimal floating-point to DBCLOB
DBCLOB(decimal-floating-point-expression,decimal-character)
Character to DBCLOB
DBCLOB (character-expression,lengthDEFAULT,integer)
Graphic to DBCLOB
DBCLOB (graphic-expression,lengthDEFAULT,integer)
Datetime to DBCLOB
DBCLOB(datetime-expression,ISOUSAEURJISLOCAL)
The DBCLOB function returns a graphic-string
representation of:
An integer number if the first argument is a SMALLINT, INTEGER,
or BIGINT
A decimal number if the first argument is a packed or zoned decimal
number
A double-precision floating-point number if the first argument
is a DOUBLE or REAL
A decimal floating-point number if the first argument is a DECFLOAT
A character string if the first argument is any type of character
string
A graphic string if the first argument is any type of graphic
string
A date value if the first argument is a DATE.
A time value if the first argument is a TIME.
A timestamp value if the first argument is a TIMESTAMP.

The result of the function is a DBCLOB. If the first argument
can be null, the result can be null; if the first argument is null,
the result is the null value.
Integer to DBCLOBinteger-expression
An expression that returns a value that is a built-in integer
data type (either SMALLINT, INTEGER, or BIGINT).

The result is a varying-length graphic string of the argument
in the form of an SQL integer constant. The result consists of n characters
that are the significant digits that represent the value of the argument
with a preceding minus sign if the argument is negative. The result
is left justified.
If the argument is a small integer, the length attribute of the
result is 6.
If the argument is a large integer, the length attribute of the
result is 11.
If the argument is a big integer, the length attribute of the
result is 20.

The actual length of the result is the smallest number
of characters that can be used to represent the value of the argument.
Leading zeroes are not included. If the argument is negative, the
first character of the result is a minus sign. Otherwise, the first
character is a digit or the decimal-character.
The CCSID of the result is 1200 (UTF-16).
Decimal to DBCLOBdecimal-expression
An expression that returns a value that is a built-in decimal
data type (either DECIMAL or NUMERIC). If a different precision and
scale is wanted, the DECIMAL scalar function can be used to make the
change.
decimal-character
Specifies the single-byte character constant that is used to delimit
the decimal digits in the result character string. The character must
be a period or comma. If the second argument is not specified, the
decimal point is the default decimal point. For more information,
see Decimal point.

The result is a varying-length graphic string representation
of the argument. The result includes a decimal character and up to p
digits, where p is the precision of the decimal-expression with
a preceding minus sign if the argument is negative. Leading zeros
are not returned. Trailing zeros are returned. If
the scale of decimal-expression is zero,
the decimal character is not returned.
The length attribute of the result is 2+p where p is
the precision of the decimal-expression.
The actual length of the result is the smallest number of characters
that can be used to represent the result, except that trailing characters
are included. Leading zeros are not included. If the argument is negative,
the result begins with a minus sign. Otherwise, the result begins
with a digit or the decimal-character.
The CCSID of the result is 1200 (UTF-16).
Floating-point to DBCLOBfloating-point expression
An expression that returns a value that is a built-in floating-point
data type (DOUBLE or REAL).
decimal-character
Specifies the single-byte character constant that is used to delimit
the decimal digits in the result character string. The character must
be a period or comma. If the second argument is not specified, the
decimal point is the default decimal point. For more information,
see Decimal point.

The result is a varying-length graphic string representation
of the argument in the form of a floating-point constant.
The length attribute of the result is 24. The actual length
of the result is the smallest number of characters that can represent
the value of the argument such that the mantissa consists of a single
digit other than zero followed by the decimal-character and
a sequence of digits. If the argument is negative, the first character
of the result is a minus sign; otherwise, the first character is a
digit or the decimal-character. If the argument
is zero, the result is 0E0.
The CCSID of the result is 1200 (UTF-16).
Decimal floating-point to DBCLOBdecimal floating-point expression
An expression that returns a value that is a built-in decimal
floating-point data type.
decimal-character
Specifies the single-byte character constant that is used to delimit
the decimal digits in the result character string. The character must
be a period or comma. If the second argument is not specified, the
decimal point is the default decimal point. For more information,
see Decimal point.

The result is a varying-length graphic string
representation of the argument in the form of a decimal floating-point
constant.
The length attribute of the result is 42. The actual
length of the result is the smallest number of characters that represents
the value of the argument, including the sign, digits, and decimal-character.
Trailing zeros are significant. If the argument is negative, the first
character of the result is a minus sign; otherwise, the first character
is a digit or the decimal-character. If
the argument is zero, the result is 0.
If the DECFLOAT value
is Infinity, sNaN, or NaN, the strings
'INFINITY', 'SNAN', and 'NAN', respectively, are returned. If the
special value is negative, a minus sign will be the first character
in the string. The DECFLOAT special value sNaN does not result
in an exception when converted to a string.
The CCSID of the
result is 1200 (UTF-16).
Character to DBCLOBcharacter-expression
An expression that returns a value that is a built-in character-string
data type. It cannot be CHAR or VARCHAR bit data. If the expression
is an empty string or the EBCDIC string X'0E0F',
the result is an empty string.
length
An integer constant that specifies the length attribute
for the resulting varying length character string. The value must
be between 1 and 1 073 741 823. If the second argument is not specified
or DEFAULT is specified:
If the character-expression is the empty string constant,
the length attribute of the result is 1.
Otherwise, the length attribute of the result is the same as the
length attribute of the first argument.

The actual length of the result is the minimum of the length
attribute of the result and the actual length of character-expression.
If the length of the character-expression is greater than the
length attribute of the result, truncation is performed. A warning
(SQLSTATE 01004) is returned unless the truncated characters were
all blanks.

integer
An integer constant that specifies the CCSID for the
resulting varying-length graphic string. It must be a DBCS, UTF-16,
or UCS-2 CCSID. The CCSID cannot be 65535. In the following rules,
S denotes one of the following:
If the string expression is a host variable containing data in
a foreign encoding scheme, S is the result of the expression after
converting the data to a CCSID in a native encoding scheme. (See Character conversion for more information.)
If the string expression is data in a native encoding scheme,
S is that string expression.

If the third argument is not specified and the first argument
is character, then the CCSID of the result is determined by a mixed
CCSID. Let M denote that mixed CCSID. M is determined as follows:
If the CCSID of S is a mixed CCSID, M is that CCSID.
If the CCSID of S is an SBCS CCSID: If the CCSID of S has an associated mixed CCSID, M is that CCSID.
Otherwise the operation is not allowed.

The following table summarizes the result CCSID based on M.
M
Result CCSID
Description
DBCS Substitution Character

930
300
Japanese EBCDIC
X'FEFE'

933
834
Korean EBCDIC
X'FEFE'

935
837
S-Chinese EBCDIC
X'FEFE'

937
835
T-Chinese EBCDIC
X'FEFE'

939
300
Japanese EBCDIC
X'FEFE'

5026
4396
Japanese EBCDIC
X'FEFE'

5035
4396
Japanese EBCDIC
X'FEFE'

If the result is DBCS-graphic data, the equivalence of
SBCS and DBCS characters depends on M. Regardless of the CCSID, every
double-byte code point in the argument is considered a DBCS character,
and every single-byte code point in the argument is considered an
SBCS character with the exception of the EBCDIC mixed data shift codes X'0E' and X'0F'.
If the nth character of the argument is a DBCS character, the
nth character of the result is that DBCS character.
If the nth character of the argument is an SBCS character that
has an equivalent DBCS character, the nth character of the result
is that equivalent DBCS character.
If the nth character of the argument is an SBCS character that
does not have an equivalent DBCS character, the nth character of the
result is the DBCS substitution character.

If the result is Unicode graphic data, each character
of the argument determines a character of the result. The nth character
of the result is the UTF-16 or UCS-2 equivalent of the nth character
of the argument.
Graphic to DBCLOBgraphic-expression
An expression that returns a value that is a built-in graphic-string
data type.
length
An integer constant that specifies the length attribute
for the resulting varying length character string. The value must
be between 1 and 1 073 741 823. If the second argument is not specified
or DEFAULT is specified:
If the graphic-expression is the empty string constant,
the length attribute of the result is 1.
Otherwise, the length attribute of the result is the same as the
length attribute of the first argument.

The actual length of the result is the minimum of the length
attribute of the result and the actual length of graphic-expression.
If the length of the graphic-expression is greater than the
length attribute of the result, truncation is performed. A warning
(SQLSTATE 01004) is returned unless the truncated characters were
all blanks.

integer
An integer constant that specifies the CCSID for the
resulting varying-length graphic string. It must be a DBCS, UTF-16,
or UCS-2 CCSID. The CCSID cannot be 65535. In the following rules,
S denotes one of the following:
If the string expression is a host variable containing data in
a foreign encoding scheme, S is the result of the expression after
converting the data to a CCSID in a native encoding scheme. (See Character conversion for more information.)
If the string expression is data in a native encoding scheme,
S is that string expression.

If the third argument is not specified, then the CCSID of
the result is the same as the CCSID of the first argument.

Datetime to DBCLOBdatetime-expression
An expression that is one of the following three built-in data
types date
The
result is the varying-length graphic string representation of the
date in the format specified by the second argument. If the second
argument is not specified, the format used is the default date format.
If the format is ISO, USA, EUR, or JIS, the length attribute and actual
length of the result is 10. Otherwise the length attribute and actual
length of the result is the length of the default date format. For
more information see String representations of datetime values.
time
The result is the varying-length graphic string representation
of the time in the format specified by the second argument. If the
second argument is not specified, the format used is the default time
format. The length attribute and actual length of the result is 8.
For more information see String representations of datetime values.
timestamp
The second argument is not applicable and must not be specified. The
result is the varying-length graphic string representation of the
timestamp. If datetime-expression is a TIMESTAMP(0),
the length attribute and actual length of the result is 19. If the
data type of datetime-expression is a TIMESTAMP(n),
the length attribute and actual length of the result is 20+n. Otherwise,
the length attribute and actual length of the result is 26.

The CCSID of the result is 1200 (UTF-16).
ISO, EUR, USA, or JIS
Specifies the date or time format of the resulting graphic string.
For more information, see String representations of datetime values.
LOCAL
Specifies that the date or time format of the resulting graphic
string should come from the DATFMT, DATSEP, TIMFMT, and TIMSEP attributes
of the job at the current server.

NoteSyntax alternatives: The CAST
specification should be used to increase the portability of applications
when the first argument is a string and the length attribute is specified.
For more information, see CAST specification.
ExampleUsing the EMPLOYEE table, set the host variable VAR_DESC (VARGRAPHIC(24))
to the DBCLOB equivalent of the first name (FIRSTNME) for employee
number (EMPNO) '000050'.   SELECT DBCLOB(VARGRAPHIC(FIRSTNME))
    INTO :VAR_DESC
    FROM EMPLOYEE
    WHERE EMPNO = '000050'

Parent topic: Scalar functions