Encrypting the debug listing view

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging ILE programs > Preparing a program object for a debug session > Preparing a program object for a debug session

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging ILE programs > Preparing a program object for a debug session

Encrypting the debug listing view
You can store an encrypted version of a debug listing view
for a compiled CL procedure in the generated module (*MODULE) object.
You can create a compiler listing view of the ILE CL procedure
in a CL module by specifying *LIST for the Debugging view (DBGVIEW)
parameter on the Create CL Module (CRTCLMOD) command
or the Create Bound CL Program (CRTBNDCL) command.
The listing view can make it easy to debug your ILE CL procedures.
However, the listing view can be seen by anyone with sufficient authority
to the program or service program object that contains the CL module. Support
was added in IBM® i 7.1
to allow you to encrypt the listing view debug data when the ILE CL
module is created. You can specify an encryption key value for the
Debug encryption key (DBGENCKEY) parameter on the CRTCLMOD and CRTBNDCL commands.
When you start a debug session, you are prompted for the encryption
key value. If the same value is not specified for the debug session
that was specified when the CL module was created, no listing view
is shown.
This encrypted debug listing view support allows you
to send a program or service program to another system without allowing
users on that system to see your CL source code by using the debug
listing view. If a problem occurs in the CL procedure, you could sign
on to the other system remotely. Once you are signed on to the other
system, you can start a debug session and provide the encryption key.
Once the encryption key is entered, the listing view data is available
for your debug session.

Parent topic: Preparing a program object for a debug session

Related information
Create Bound CL Program (CRTBNDCL) command
Create CL Module (CRTCLMOD) command