JOBPTY, OUTPTY, and PTYLMT scheduling priority parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters > Commonly used parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters

JOBPTY, OUTPTY, and PTYLMT scheduling priority parameters
The scheduling priority parameters specify the priority values
used by the system to determine the order in which the jobs and spooled files
are selected for processing.
Each job is given a scheduling priority that is used for both
job selection and spooled file output. The job scheduling priority is specified
by the JOBPTY parameter in commands like the Batch Job (BCHJOB), Submit
Job (SBMJOB), Create Job Description (CRTJOBD),
and Change Job Description (CHGJOBD) commands. The priority
for producing the spooled output from a job is specified by the OUTPTY parameter
in the same commands.
In addition, because every job is processed under
a specific user profile, the priority for jobs can be limited by the PTYLMT
parameter specified on the Create User Profile (CRTUSRPRF) and Change
User Profile (CHGUSRPRF) commands. This parameter value controls
the maximum job scheduling priority and output priority that any job running
under a user profile can have; that is, the priority specified in the JOBPTY
and OUTPTY parameters of any job command cannot exceed the priority specified
in the PTYLMT parameter for that user profile. The scheduling priority is
used to determine the order in which jobs are selected for processing and
is not related to the process priority specified in the class object.
The
three scheduling priority parameters specify the following:
The PTYLMT parameter specifies the highest scheduling priority for any
job that you submit. In the commands that affect the user profile, the PTYLMT
parameter specifies the highest priority that can be specified in another
JOBPTY parameter on commands relating to each specific job. You can specify
a lower priority for a job on the command used to submit the job. If you specify
a higher priority for JOBPTY in the BCHJOB or SBMJOB command than is specified
for PTYLMT in the associated user profile, an error message is shown on the
display and the maximum priority specified in PTYLMT is assumed. If a higher
job priority is specified in the CHGJOB or CHGJOBD command, an error message
is shown and the attributes are not changed.
The JOBPTY parameter specifies the priority value to be used for a specific
job being submitted. In the commands relating to a specific job being submitted,
the JOBPTY parameter specifies the actual scheduling priority for the job.
The OUTPTY parameter specifies the priority for producing the output from
all spooled output files from the job. The priority value specified in the
OUTPTY parameter determines the order in which spooled files are handled for
output. The same value is applied to all the spooled files produced by the
job.

The scheduling priority can have a value ranging from 0 through 9,
where 1 is the highest priority and 9 is the lowest priority. Any job with
a priority of 0 is scheduled for processing before all other jobs that are
waiting and that have priorities of 1 through 9.
The priority parameters
can be specified on the following commands.
Table 1. Priority parameterPriority parameter
Commands on which it can be specified

JOBPTY
ADDJOBJS, BCHJOB, CHGJOB, CHGJOBD, CHGJOBJS, CRTJOBD, SBMJOB, SBMJOBJS

OUTPTY
ADDJOBJS, BCHJOB, CHGDKTF, CHGJOBD, CHGJOBJS, CHGJOB, CHGJOBD, CHGJOBJS,
CHGPJ, CHGPRTF, CHGSPLFA, CRTDKTF, CRTJOBD, CRTPRTF, OVRDKTF, OVRPRTF, SBMJOB,
SBMJOBJS

PTYLMT
CHGUSRPRF, CRTUSRPRF, RTVUSRPRF

Values allowedDepending upon the command, one or
more of the following values apply to the parameter.
5
If a value is not specified in the CRTUSRPRF command, five is the default
value that is assumed for the priority limit for the user profile. That would
be the highest priority that the user could specify for any job he submits
for processing. If not specified in the CRTJOBD command, five is the default
value for both the job scheduling priority and the output priority.
*SAME
The priority assigned, or the highest priority that can be assigned, does
not change.
*JOBD
The scheduling priority for the job is obtained from the job description
under which the job runs.
scheduling-priority:
Specify a priority value ranging from 0 through 9, where 0 is the highest
priority and 9 is the lowest priority. Priority 0 is allowed only on CHGJOB.

Parent topic: Commonly used parameters