Constants

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Language elements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements

Constants
A constant (also called a literal) specifies a value.
Constants are classified as string constants or numeric constants. String
constants are further classified as character or graphic. Numeric constants
are further classified as integer, floating point, or decimal.
All constants have the attribute NOT NULL. A negative sign in
a numeric constant with a value of zero is ignored.

Integer constants
An integer constant specifies an integer as a signed or
unsigned number with a maximum of 19 digits that does not include a decimal
point. The data type of an integer constant is large integer if its value
is within the range of a large integer. The data type of an integer constant
is big integer if its value is outside the range of a large integer, but within
the range of a big integer. A constant that is defined outside the range of
big integer values is considered a decimal constant.
Decimal constants
A decimal constant specifies a decimal number
as a signed or unsigned number that consists of no more than 63 digits and
either includes a decimal point or is not within the range of binary integers.
Floating-point constants
A floating-point constant specifies a double-precision floating-point
number as two numbers separated by an E. The first number can include a sign
and a decimal point; the second number can include a sign but not a decimal
point. The value of the constant is the product of the first number and the
power of 10 specified by the second number; it must be within the range of
floating-point numbers. The number of characters in the constant must not
exceed 24. Excluding leading zeros, the number of digits in the first number
must not exceed 17 and the number of digits in the second must not exceed
3.
Decimal floating-point constants
A decimal floating-point constant specifies a decimal
floating-point number as two numbers separated by an E. The first
number can include a sign and a decimal point; the second number can
include a sign but not a decimal point. The value of the constant
is the product of the first number and the power of 10 specified by
the second number; it must be within the range of DECFLOAT(34). The
number of characters in the constant must not exceed 42. Excluding
leading zeros, the number of digits in the first number must not exceed
34 and the number of digits in the second must not exceed 4.
Character-string constants
A character-string constant specifies a varying-length
character string.
Graphic-string constants
There are two types of graphic-string constants: DBCS and
Unicode graphic-string constants.
Binary-string constants
A binary-string constant specifies a varying-length binary
string.
Datetime constants
A datetime constant specifies a date, time, or timestamp.
Decimal point
You can specify a default decimal point.
Delimiters
*APOST and *QUOTE are mutually exclusive COBOL precompiler options
that name the string delimiter within COBOL statements. *APOST names the apostrophe
(') as the string delimiter; *QUOTE names the quotation mark ("). *APOST and
*QUOTE are mutually exclusive COBOL precompiler options that play a similar
role for SQL statements embedded in COBOL programs. *APOST names the apostrophe
(') as the SQL string delimiter; with this option, the quotation mark (")
is the SQL escape character. *QUOTE names the quotation mark as the SQL string
delimiter; with this option, the apostrophe is the SQL escape character. The
values of *APOST and *QUOTE are respectively the same as the values of *APOST
and *QUOTE.

Parent topic: Language elements