VALUES INTO

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

VALUES INTO
The VALUES INTO statement produces a result table consisting
of at most one row and assigns the values in that row to variables.
InvocationThis statement can
be embedded in an application program. It is an executable statement
that can be dynamically prepared, but cannot be issued interactively
unless all variables being assigned are global variables. It must
not be specified in REXX or Java™.
AuthorizationIf a row-fullselect is
specified, see Queries for an explanation
of the authorization required for each subselect.
If
a global variable is specified on the right hand side of the assignment,
the privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement must
include at least one of the following:
The WRITE privilege on the global variable.
Database administrator authority

SyntaxVALUESexpressionNULL(,expressionNULLrow-fullselect)INTO,variable
DescriptionVALUES
Introduces a single row consisting of one or more columns. expression
Specifies
the new value of the variable. The expression is
any expression of the type described in Expressions.
It must not include a column name. Host structures are not supported.
NULL
Specifies
that the new value for the variable is the null value.
row-fullselect
A
fullselect that returns a single result row. The result column values
are assigned to each corresponding variable.
If the result of the fullselect is no rows, then null values are assigned.
An error is returned if there is more than one row in the result.

INTO variable,…
Identifies one or more
host structures or variables that must be declared in the program
in accordance with the rules for declaring host structures and variables.
In the operational form of INTO, a reference to a host structure is
replaced by a reference to each of its variables. The first value
specified is assigned to the first variable, the second value to the
second variable, and so on.

NotesVariable
assignment: Each assignment to a variable is performed according
to the retrieval assignment rules described in Assignments and comparisons.1 If the number of variables
is less than the number of values in the row, an SQL warning (SQLSTATE
01503) is returned (and the SQLWARN3 field of the SQLCA is set to
'W'). Note that there is no warning if there are more variables than
the number of result columns. If a value is null, an indicator variable
must be provided for that value.
If the specified variable is character and is not large
enough to contain the result, a warning (SQLSTATE 01004) is returned
(and 'W' is assigned to SQLWARN1 in the SQLCA). The actual length
of the result may be returned in the indicator variable associated
with the variable, if an indicator variable is provided. For further
information, see Variables.
If an assignment error occurs, the value is not assigned
to the variable, and no more values are assigned to variables. Any
values that have already been assigned to variables remain assigned.
If the specified variable is a C NUL-terminated host variable
and is not large enough to contain the result and the NUL-terminator:
If the *CNULRQD option is specified on the CRTSQLCI or CRTSQLCPPI
command (or CNULRQD(*YES) on the SET OPTION statement), the following
occurs: The result is truncated.
The last character is the NUL-terminator.
The value ‘W' is assigned to SQLWARN1 in the SQLCA.

If the *NOCNULRQD option on the CRTSQLCI or CRTSQLCPPI command
(or CNULRQD(*NO) on the SET OPTION statement) is specified, the following
occurs: The NUL-terminator is not returned.
The value ‘N' is assigned to SQLWARN1 in the SQLCA.

Result column evaluation considerations: If an
error occurs while evaluating a result column in the expression list
of a VALUES INTO statement as the result of an arithmetic expression
(such as division by zero, or overflow) or a numeric or character
conversion error, the result is the null value. As in any other case
of a null value, an indicator variable must be provided. The value
of the variable is undefined. In this case, however, the indicator
variable is set to the value of -2. Processing of the statement continues
and a warning is returned. If an indicator variable is not provided,
an error is returned and no more values are assigned to variables.
It is possible that some values have already been assigned to variables
and will remain assigned when the error is returned.
When a datetime value is returned, the length of the variable
must be large enough to store the complete value. Otherwise, depending
on how much of the value would have to be truncated, a warning or
error is returned. See Datetime assignments for details.
Multiple assignments: If more than one variable
is specified in the INTO clause, all expressions are evaluated
before the assignments are performed. Thus, references to a variable in
an expression are always the value of the variable prior
to any assignment in the VALUES INTO statement.
ExamplesExample 1: Assign the value
of the CURRENT PATH special register to host variable HV1.
EXEC SQL VALUES CURRENT PATH
INTO :HV1;

Example 2: Assume that LOB locator LOB1 is associated
with a CLOB value. Assign a portion of the CLOB value to host variable
DETAILS using the LOB locator, and assign CURRENT TIMESTAMP to the
host variable TIMETRACK.
EXEC SQL VALUES (SUBSTR(:LOB1,1,35), CURRENT TIMESTAMP)
INTO :DETAILS, :TIMETRACK;

Parent topic: Statements

1 If assigning to an SQL-variable
or SQL-parameter and the standards option is specified, storage assignment
rules apply. For information about the standards option, see Standards compliance.