Defining a command

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands > Defining commands

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands

Defining a command
To create a command, you must first define the command through
command definition statements.
The general format of the command definition statements and a
summary of the coding rules follow.
Statement
Coding rules

CMD
Only one CMD statement must be used. The CMD statement
can be placed anywhere in the source file.

PARM
A maximum of 99 PARM statements is allowed. The order
in which you enter the PARM statements into the source file determines the
order in which the parameters are passed to the command processing program
(CPP) and validity checking program (VCP). One PARM statement is required
for each parameter that is to be passed to the command processing program.
To specify a parameter as a key parameter, you must specify KEYPARM(*YES)
for the PARM statement. The number of parameters coded with KEYPARM(*YES)
should be limited to the number needed to uniquely define the object to be
changed. To use key parameters, the prompt override program must be specified
when creating the command. Key parameters cannot be defined with PMTCTL(*PMTRQS)
or PMTCTL(label).

ELEM
A maximum of 300 ELEM statements is allowed in one list.
The order in which you enter the ELEM statements into the source file determines
the order of the elements in the list. The first ELEM statement must have
a statement label that matches the statement label on the TYPE parameter on
the PARM or ELEM statement for the list.

QUAL
A maximum of 300 qualifiers is allowed for a qualified
name. The order in which you enter the QUAL statements into the source file
determines the order in which the qualifiers must be specified and the order
in which they are passed to the validity checking program and command processing
program.

DEP
The DEP statement must be placed after all PARM statements
it refers to. Therefore, the DEP statements are normally placed near the
end of the source file.

PMTCTL
The PMTCTL statement must be placed after all PARM statements
it refers to. Therefore, the PMTCTL statements are normally placed at the
end of the source file.

At least one PARM statement must precede any ELEM or QUAL statements
in the source file. The source file in which you enter the command definition
statements is used by the CRTCMD command when you create a command. Use WebSphere® Development
Studio to enter statements into a source file.

Using the CMD statement
When you define a command, you must include only one CMD statement
with your command definition statements.
Create options in command definition source
Several create option parameters on the Create Command
(CRTCMD) command can also be specified on the CMD statement. Values
that are specified on the CMD statement take precedence over any values specified
on the CRTCMD command.
Defining parameters
To define a parameter, you must use the PARM statement.

Parent topic: Defining commands

Related concepts
Dynamic prompt message for control language