HLPDOC (Help Document) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

HLPDOC (Help Document) keyword for display files

You use this file- or help-specification-level
keyword to define the document as help information text for a
specific location on the display.

The format of the keyword is: HLPDOC(online-help-information-text-label-name document-name folder-name)
The online-help-information-text-label-name parameter corresponds to a label
in the online help document and marks the point at which the document's display
begins.
The document-name parameter identifies the online document containing
the online help information.
The folder-name parameter identifies the
folder containing the document specified. Because folders can reside inside
other folders, and because any given folder or document name is only unique
within its containing folder, you might be required to concatenate several
folder names together to identify a document/folder. The folder name you specify
on the HLPDOC keyword can be a simple folder name, which follows the same
syntax rules as the document name, or you can specify the folder name as a
concatenated name.
The document specified on an H specification level
HLPDOC keyword is displayed if both of the following conditions are true:

The cursor is located in the help area (defined by HLPARA) for that H
specification.

The H specification is active. (The option indicator on the H specification
level HLPDOC keyword determines if the H specification is active.)

The document specified on a file level HLPDOC keyword is displayed
when no help area for the active records contains the current cursor location.
You
cannot specify HLPDOC with HLPBDY, HLPPNLGRP, or HLPRTN.
Option indicators
are valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the HLPDOC keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A HELP
A HLPDOC(START GENERAL.HLP HELP.F1)
A R REC1 OVERLAY
A H HLPDOC(LBL1 HELP#1 HELP.F1)
A HLPARA(10 3 12 50)
A H HLPARA(15 9 17 61)
A 90 HLPDOC(LBL2 HELP#2 HELP/FLD)
A H HLPARA(15 9 17 61)
A N90 HLPDOC(LBL3 HELP#3 HELP.F1/FLD)
AThe HELP keyword enables the Help key.
The HLPDOC
keyword at the file level specifies that the GENERAL.HLP document in the HELP.F1
folder will be displayed starting at the START help label if the Help key
is pressed and the cursor is not in a help area defined by a HLPARA keyword
at the H specification level.
At the H specification level:

The first H specification indicates that the HELP#1 document in the HELP.F1
folder will be displayed starting at the LBL1 help label if the Help key is
pressed and the cursor is in positions 3 through 50 of lines 10, 11, or 12.

The second H specification indicates that the HELP#2 document in the HELP/FLD
folder will be displayed starting at the LBL2 help label if the REC1 record
is put with indicator 90 on, the Help key is pressed, and the cursor is in
positions 9 through 61 of lines 15, 16, or 17.

The third H specification indicates that the HELP#3 document in the HELP.F1/FLD
folder will be displayed starting at the LBL3 help label if the REC1 record
is put with indicator 90 off, the Help key is pressed, and the cursor is in
positions 9 through 61 of lines 15, 16, or 17.