LENGTH

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Intrinsic Functions > Intrinsic Functions

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Intrinsic Functions

LENGTH
The LENGTH function returns an integer equal to the length of the argument
in bytes. The function type is integer.
The function result is a nine-digit integer.

Format

>>-FUNCTION LENGTH--(--argument-1--)---------------------------><

argument-1
Can be a nonnumeric, boolean, or DBCS literal; a data item of any class
or category.
If argument-1, or any data item subordinate to argument-1,
is described with the DEPENDING phrase of the OCCURS clause, the contents
of the data item referenced by the data-name specified in the DEPENDING phrase
are used at the time the LENGTH function is evaluated.

Argument-1 can
be a type-name, or an item that is subordinate to a type-name.

A data item described with USAGE IS POINTER or USAGE IS PROCEDURE-POINTER
can be used as argument-1 to the LENGTH function. The result will always be
16.
The ADDRESS OF special register, or the LENGTH OF special register, can
be used as argument-1 to the LENGTH function. The result will always be 16
or 4 respectively, independent of the ADDRESS OF or LENGTH OF object.
If argument-1 is a nonnumeric literal, an elementary data item, or a group
data item that does not contain a variable occurrence data item, the value
returned is an integer equal to the length of argument-1 in character positions.
If argument-1 is a null-terminated nonnumeric literal, the returned
value is equal to the number of alphanumeric character positions in the literal
excluding the null character at the end of the literal. The length of a null-terminated
nonnumeric literal containing a mix of single-byte and double-byte characters
is counted as though each byte were a single-byte character.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension If argument-1 is a DBCS or national data item
or literal, the returned value is the length of the argument in DBCS or national
character positions. For example, FUNCTION LENGTH (G"D1D2") will
return the value 2, not 4. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension The returned value includes implicit FILLER characters, if any.

Parent topic: Intrinsic Functions