An Acknowledgment

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > About ILE COBOL Language Reference > About ILE COBOL Language Reference

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > About ILE COBOL Language Reference

An Acknowledgment
The following extract from U.S. Government Printing Office Form
Number 1965-0795689 is presented for your information and guidance:
Any organization interested in reproducing the COBOL report
and specifications in whole or in part, using ideas taken from this
report as the basis for an instruction manual or for any other purpose
is free to do so. However, all such organizations are requested to
reproduce this section as part of the introduction to the document.
Those using a short passage, as in a book review, are requested to
mention COBOL in acknowledgment of the source, but need not quote
this entire section.
COBOL is an industry language and is not
the property of any company or group of companies, or of any organization
or group of organizations.
No warranty, expressed or implied,
is made by any contributor or by the COBOL Committee as to the accuracy
and functioning of the programming system and language. Moreover,
no responsibility is assumed by any contributor, or by the committee,
in connection therewith.
Procedures have been established for
the maintenance of COBOL. Inquiries concerning the procedures for
proposing changes should be directed to the Executive Committee of
the Conference on Data Systems Languages.
The authors and copyright
holders of copyrighted material: Programming for the UNIVAC® I and II, Data Automation Systems
copyrighted 1958, 1959, by Unisys Corporation;
IBM® Commercial Translator,
Form No. F28-8013, copyrighted 1959 by IBM;
FACT, DSI 27A5260-2760, copyrighted 1960 by Minneapolis-Honeywell

have specifically authorized the use of this material in whole
or in part, in the COBOL specifications. Such authorization extends
to the reproduction and use of COBOL specifications in programming
manuals or similar publications.

Parent topic: About ILE COBOL Language Reference