Commands and command help

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Documenting command > Documenting command

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Documenting command

Commands and command help
Command prompting and online command help are powerful features
of CL commands.
If you have developed one or more of your own CL commands, you know that
all of the command prompting capabilities used by IBM CL commands are available
for you to use for your commands. The same is true for command help; the
same capabilities for help provided for IBM-provided commands are also available
for you to use to create online help.
The first step is to understand how the connections work between commands
and command help.
Command help information is stored in panel group objects. The symbolic
object type for a panel group is *PNLGRP. A help panel group consists of
help modules. Each help module has a help module name.
There are two parameters on the Create Command (CRTCMD) command
that make the connection between a command (*CMD) object and an online help
panel group: HLPID (Help identifier) and HLPPNLGRP (Help panel
group).
There are four types of command help modules in an online help panel group:
Command-level help module
Parameter-level help module
Command examples help module
Command error messages help module

When you try to view the help for a CL command (for instance, by pressing
the F1 (Help) key while prompting the command), the i5/OS® operating
system determines whether the command has a help panel group associated with
the command. If the command was created specifying a panel group name for
the HLPPNLGRP parameter, or was changed by the Change Command (CHGCMD) command
to have a help panel group associated with the command, the help stored in
the panel group is retrieved, formatted, and displayed. The i5/OS operating
system attempts to retrieve help from the following help modules in the help
panel group:
A command-level help module that has the same name as the value specified
for the HLPID parameter when the command was created or changed. For example,
if command STRPAY was created specifying HLPID(STRPAY), the i5/OS operating
system looks for a help module named STRPAY.
A parameter-level help module for each command parameter, with the exception
of constant parameters. The help module name must be the command's HLPID value
followed by a forward slash character followed by the parameter keyword name.
For example, if command STRPAY has a HLPID value of STRPAY and a parameter
named TITLE, the i5/OS operating
system looks for a parameter-level help module named STRPAY/TITLE.
A help module containing one or more examples of using the command.
The help module name must be the command's HLPID value followed by a forward
slash character followed by COMMAND/EXAMPLES. For example, if command STRPAY
has a HLPID value of STRPAY, the i5/OS operating
system looks for a command examples help module named STRPAY/COMMAND/EXAMPLES.
A help module containing the list of monitorable messages that may be
signaled from the command. The help module name must be the command's HLPID
value followed by a forward slash character followed by ERROR/MESSAGES. For
example, if command STRPAY has a HLPID value of STRPAY, the i5/OS operating
system looks for a command examples help module named STRPAY/ERROR/MESSAGES.

When viewing extended CL command help on a 5250 terminal (or using 5250
emulator software), command-level and parameter-level help sections are required,
and the examples and error messages help sections are optional. If the command-level
help section or any parameter-level help section is not found in the online
help panel group, diagnostic message CPF6E01 (Help information is incomplete)
is displayed at the bottom of the help display. If the examples or error
messages help modules are not found, no diagnostic message is displayed.

Parent topic: Documenting command

Related information
Create Command (CRTCMD) command