EXTERNAL Clause

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—File and Sort Description Entries > Data Division—File and Sort Description Entries

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—File and Sort Description Entries

EXTERNAL Clause
The EXTERNAL clause specifies that a file connector is external.

EXTERNAL Clause - Format

>>-+----+--EXTERNAL--------------------------------------------><
   '-IS-'    

In a run unit, there is only one representation of an external file; an
external file can be referenced by any COBOL program in the run unit that
describes the file.
In the File Section, the EXTERNAL clause can be specified only in file
description entries. The records appearing in the file description entry need
not have the same name in corresponding external file description entries.
In addition, the number of such records need not be the same in corresponding
file description entries. However, the maximum record length for corresponding
external file description entries must be the same.
For EXTERNAL files, the value of all BLOCK CONTAINS clauses of corresponding
EXTERNAL files must match within the run unit. This conformance is in terms
of character positions only - not upon whether the value was specified as
CHARACTERS or as RECORDS.
All file description entries in the run unit that are associated with an
external file connector must have:
A LINAGE clause, if any file description entry has a LINAGE clause.
The same corresponding values for integer-8, integer-9, integer-10, and
integer-11, if specified.
The same corresponding external data items referenced by data-name-3,
data-name-4, data-name-5, and data-name-6.

Use of the EXTERNAL clause does not imply that the associated file-name
is a global name.
The TYPEDEF
clause cannot be specified in the same data description entry as the EXTERNAL
clause, however, the TYPE clause can.

Considerations for External Files

Parent topic: Data Division—File and Sort Description Entries