INDARA (Indicator Area) keyword for ICF files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS Reference: ICF Files > DDS keyword entries for ICF files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS Reference: ICF Files > DDS keyword entries for ICF files (positions 45 through 80)

INDARA (Indicator Area) keyword for ICF files

You can use this file-level keyword to remove option
and response indicators from the buffer or record area, and to place them
in a 99-byte separate indicator area.

Specifying the INDARA keyword provides the following advantages:

Simplifies COBOL/400 programming
when both option and response indicators are used. If the same indicator is
used as a response indicator and as an option indicator, both indicators always
have the same value, regardless of the order in which they are specified in
the DDS.

Assists the RPG/400® programmer
using program-described workstation (WORKSTN) files.

This keyword has no parameters.
If you specify the INDARA
keyword, some high-level languages require that you specify in your program
that a separate indicator area is to be used. See the appropriate high-level
language manual.
If you specify the INDARA keyword, you can add, change,
or delete option and response indicators in the DDS and recompile the file
without recompiling the high-level language program. This is allowed because
the field locations in the buffer have not changed and, therefore, the level
check data has not changed. However, if the program is to
take advantage of the new indicators, the program still needs to be changed
and recompiled.
Option indicators are not valid for this keyword.

Example The following example shows how to specify
the INDARA keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A INDARA
00020A 41 FAIL
00030A RCVTRNRND(14 'Turn around')
00040A R RCD
00050A ACTNBR 10
AWith the INDARA keyword specified, option indicator 41
and response indicator 14 are removed from the buffer for RCD and placed in
the separate indicator area. Only ACTNBR, a named field, remains in the buffer
for record format RCD.