Removing messages from a message queue

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Messages

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages

Removing messages from a message queue
Messages are held on a message queue until they are removed.
You can remove them using the Remove Message (RMVMSG) command, Clear
Message Queue (CLRMSGQ) command, the RMV parameter on the Retrieve
Message (RTVMSG) and Send Reply (SNDRPY) commands,
the remove function keys of the Display Messages display, or the clear message
queue option on the Work with Message Queue display. You can remove:
A single message
All messages
All except unanswered messages
All old messages
All new messages
All messages from all inactive programs

To remove a single message using the Remove Message (RMVMSG) command
or a single old message using the Retrieve Message (RTVMSG) command,
you specify the message reference key of the message to be removed.
Note: The
message reference key can also be used to receive a message and to reply to
a message.
If you remove an inquiry message that you have not answered,
a default reply is sent to the sender of the message and the inquiry message
and the message and its reply are removed. If you remove an inquiry message
that you have already answered, both the message and its reply are removed.
To
remove all messages for all inactive programs or procedures from a user's
job message queue, specify *ALLINACT for the PGMQ parameter and *ALL for the
CLEAR parameter on the Remove Message (RMVMSG) command.
If you want to print your job log before you remove all the inactive messages,
use the Display Job Log (DSPJOBLOG) command and specify
*PRINT for the OUTPUT parameter.
When working with a call message queue
of an Integrated Language Environment® (ILE) procedure, it is possible that an exception
message for unhandled exceptions is on the queue at the time the Remove
Message (RMVMSG) command is run. The RMVEXCP keyword of this command
can be used to control actions for messages of this type. If *YES is specified
for this keyword, the RMVMSG command causes the exception to be handled and
the message to be removed. If *NO is specified, the message is not removed.
As a result, the exception is not handled.
The following Remove
Message (RMVMSG) command removes a message from the user message
queue JONES. The message reference key is in the CL variable &MRKEY.
DCL &MRKEY TYPE(*CHAR) LEN(4)
RCVMSG MSGQ(JONES) RMV(*NO) KEYVAR(&MRKEY)
RMVMSG MSGQ(JONES) MSGKEY(&MRKEY)
The following Remove Message (RMVMSG) command
removes all messages from the call message queue for the procedure containing
the command.
RMVMSG CLEAR(*ALL)

Parent topic: Messages

Related tasks
Receiving messages into a CL procedure or program