ILE C/C++ Runtime Library Functions

IBM i programming resources > ILE C/C++ > Runtime Library functions > Runtime Library Functions > Runtime Considerations > Understanding CCSIDs and Locales

IBM i programming resources > ILE C/C++ > Runtime Library functions > Runtime Library Functions > Runtime Considerations > Understanding CCSIDs and Locales

ILE C/C++ Runtime Library Functions

Wide Characters
The ILE C/C++ compilers support the following:

If LOCALETYPE(*CLD) or LOCALETYPE(*LOCALE) is specified on the
compilation command, wide characters are treated as 2-byte wide EBCDIC
characters.
If LOCALETYPE(*LOCALEUCS2) is specified on the compilation command,
wide characters are treated as 2-byte UCS-2 characters.
If LOCALETYPE(*LOCALEUTF) is specified on the compilation command,
wide characters are treated as 4-byte UTF-32 characters.When EBCDIC wide characters are used, the CCSID of the EBCDIC
characters depends on the CCSID of the LC_CTYPE category of the current
locale. See Unicode Support for more information about
Unicode characters.

Wide Character Conversions to and from Single-Byte or Multibyte
Characters
The character conversion routines examine the CCSID setting for
the LC_CTYPE category of the current locale to determine whether single-byte
or multibyte characters are expected for the conversion from or to
wide characters.
The handling of wide character conversions (to and from single-byte
or multibyte character strings) is dependent on the LOCALETYPE parameter
value specified on the compilation command. The handling depends on
the shift state of the single-byte or multibyte character string.
The mbtowc, mbstowcs, wctomb, and wcstombs functions
maintain an internal shift state variable. The mbrtowc, mbsrtowcs, wcrtomb,
and wcsrtombs functions allow the shift state variable
to be passed as a parameter. The second set of functions is recommended
because they are more versatile and are also threadsafe.

LOCALETYPE(*CLD) and LOCALETYPE(*LOCALE) behavior
When converting from a single-byte CCSID to wide EBCDIC, the wide
EBCDIC character is constructed by adding a zero byte to the single-byte
character. For example, the single-byte CCSID 37 character A (hexadecimal
value 0xC1) would have the hexadecimal value 0x00C1 when it is converted
to a wide EBCDIC character.
When converting from a multibyte CCSID to wide EBCDIC,
the conversion method depends on the shift state of the input string.
In the initial shift state, characters are read exactly as if they
were single-byte characters until a shift-out character (hexadecimal
value 0x0E) is read. This character indicates a shift to double-byte
shift state. In the double-byte shift state, 2 bytes are read
at a time: the first byte makes up the first byte of the EBCDIC wide
character and the second byte will be the second byte of the EBCDIC
wide character. If the shift-in character (hexadecimal value 0x0F)
is encountered, the function returns to the initial shift state parsing.
For example, the multibyte string represented by the hexadecimal value
C10E43DA0FC2 is translated to the EBCDIC wide character string with
the hexadecimal value 00C143DA00C2.
When converting from wide EBCDIC to a single-byte CCSID, if the
character has a hexadecimal value greater than 0x00FF, EOF is returned;
otherwise, the top byte is truncated and the lower byte is returned.
For example, the wide EBCDIC character with the hexadecimal value
0x00C1 is converted to the single-byte character whose hexadecimal
value is 0xC1.
When converting from wide EBCDIC to a multibyte CCSID, the conversion
method is determined by the shift state of the output string:

If the output string is in the initial shift state, any EBCDIC
wide character with a hexadecimal value that is less than or equal
to 0x00FF is truncated to 1 byte and placed in the output string.
If the output string is in the initial shift state, any EBCDIC
wide character with a value that is greater than 0x00FF causes a shift-out
character (hexadecimal value 0x0E) to be generated in the output string.
The shift state of the output string is updated to double-byte, and
both bytes of the EBCDIC wide character are copied to the output string.
If the output string is in the double-byte shift state and an
EBCDIC wide character whose hexadecimal value is less than or equal
to 0x00FF is encountered, a shift-in character (hexadecimal value
0x0F) is placed in the output string. The shift-in character
is followed by the value of the EBCDIC wide character that is truncated
to 1 byte. The shift state of the output string is changed to single-byte.
If the output string is in the double-byte shift state and an
EBCDIC wide character whose value is greater than 0x00FF is encountered,
the 2 bytes of the EBCDIC wide character are copied to the output
string.
For example, the EBCDIC wide character string with the hexadecimal
value 00C143DA00C2 is translated to a multibyte string with the hexadecimal
value C10E43DA0FC2.

LOCALETYPE(*LOCALEUCS2) and LOCALETYPE(*LOCALEUTF) behavior
If LOCALETYPE(*LOCALEUCS2) is specified on the compilation command,
wide character values are 2-byte UCS-2 values. All conversions
between UCS-2 strings and single-byte or multibyte strings
are conducted as if the iconv() function were used. CCSID
13488 is used for the UCS-2 string, and the CCSID of the LC_CTYPE
category of the current locale is used for the single-byte or multibyte
string.
If LOCALETYPE(*LOCALEUTF) is specified on the compilation command,
wide character values are 4-byte UTF-32 values. All conversions between
UTF-32 strings and single-byte or multibyte strings are conducted
as if the iconv() function were used. UTF-32 is not supported
by the iconv() function. Therefore, in conversions between
a UTF-32 string and a single-byte or multibyte string, UTF-16 (CCSID
1200) is used as an intermediary data type. Transformations between
UTF-32 and UTF-16 are accomplished using the QlgTransformUCSData()
API. The iconv() API is used for the conversion between UTF-16 and
the CCSID of the LC_CTYPE category of the current locale.

Wide Characters and File I/O

Wide character write routines
Several routines, including fwprintf, vwprintf, vfwprintf, wprintf, fputwc, fputws, putwc, putwchar,
and ungetwc can be used to write wide characters to a file.
These routines are not available when either LOCALETYPE(*CLD) or SYSIFCOPT(*NOIFSIO)
is specified on the compilation command.
If LOCALETYPE(*LOCALE) is specified on the compilation command,
the wide characters that are written are assumed to be wide character
equivalents of the code points in the file CCSID. The CCSID of the
file is assumed to be a single or multibyte EBCDIC CCSID.
If LOCALETYPE(*LOCALEUCS2) or LOCALETYPE(*LOCALEUTF) is specified
on the compilation command, the wide characters that are being written
are assumed to be Unicode characters. For LOCALETYPE(*LOCALEUCS2),
they are assumed to be 2-byte UCS-2 characters. For LOCALETYPE(*LOCALEUTF),
they are assumed to be 4-byte UTF-32 characters. If the file that
is being written to is not one of the standard files, the Unicode
characters are then written directly to the file as if the file had
been opened for writing in binary mode. The CCSID of the file is assumed
to be a Unicode CCSID that matches the locale setting. If the file
that is being written to is a standard file, the Unicode input is
converted to the CCSID of the job before being written to the file.

Non-wide character write routines
The non-wide character write routines (fprintf, vfprintf, vprintf,
and printfcan) can take a wide character as input.
In all cases, the wide characters are converted to multibyte character
strings in the CCSID of the LC_CTYPE category of the current locale
as if the wctomb function or the wcstombs function
were used. The file CCSID is assumed to match the CCSID of the LC_CTYPE
category of the current locale.
If LOCALETYPE(*LOCALEUTF) is specified on the compilation command
and the file that is being written to is a standard file, the output
will automatically be converted from the CCSID of the LC_CTYPE category
of the current locale to the CCSID of the file (which usually matches
the job CCSID).

Wide character read routines
The routines that can read wide characters from a file include fgetwc, fgetws, fwscanf, getwc, getwchar, vfwscanf, vwscanf,
and wscanf. These routines are not available when either
LOCALETYPE(*CLD) or SYSIFCOPT(*NOIFSIO) is specified on the compilation
command.
If LOCALETYPE(*LOCALE) is specified on the compilation command,
the wide characters read from the file are assumed to be EBCDIC wide
character equivalents of the code points in the file CCSID.
If LOCALETYPE(*LOCALEUCS2) or LOCALETYPE(*LOCALEUTF) is specified
on the compilation command, the input wide characters and the characters
in the file are assumed to be Unicode characters. For LOCALETYPE(*LOCALEUCS2),
they are assumed to be 2-byte UCS-2 characters. For LOCALETYPE(*LOCALEUTF),
they are assumed to be 4-byte UTF-32 characters. If the file that
is being read is not one of the standard files, the Unicode characters
are read directly from the file as if the file had been opened in
binary mode. The CCSID of the file is assumed to be a Unicode CCSID
that matches the locale setting. If the file that is being read is
a standard file, then the job CCSID input that is read from the file
is converted to the appropriate Unicode CCSID.

Non-wide character read routines
The non-wide character read routines (fscanf, scanf, vfscanf,
and vscanf) can produce a wide character as output.
In all cases, the wide characters are converted from multibyte
character strings in the CCSID of the LC_CTYPE category of the current
locale to the appropriate wide character type for the locale setting
as if the mbtowc function or the mbstowcs function
were used.

[ Top of Page | Previous Page | Next Page | Contents |
Index ]