Types of Functions

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Intrinsic Functions > Intrinsic Functions

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Intrinsic Functions

Types of Functions
There are seven types of functions:
Alphanumeric
Numeric

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension DBCS
National
Date-Time
Boolean

End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension Integer

Alphanumeric functions are of the class and category alphanumeric.
The value returned has an implicit usage of DISPLAY and is in standard
data format characters. The number of character positions in the value
returned is determined by the function definition.
Numeric functions are of the class and category numeric.
The returned value is always considered to have an operational sign
and is a numeric intermediate result. For more information, see the IBM® Rational® Development Studio
for i: ILE COBOL Programmer's Guide.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension DBCS functions are of
the class and category DBCS. The value returned has an implicit usage
of DISPLAY-1. The number of character positions in the value returned
is determined by the function definition.
National functions
are of the class and category NATIONAL. The value returned has an
implicit usage of NATIONAL. The number of character positions in the
value returned is determined by the function definition.
Date-Time functions
are of the class date-time and category date, time, or timestamp.
The value returned has an implicit usage of DISPLAY. The number of
character positions in the value returned is determined by the function
definition.
Boolean functions are of class and category
boolean. The value returned has an implicit usage of DISPLAY, and
is either a boolean true (B"1") or a boolean false (B"0").
End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension Integer functions are of the class and category numeric.
The returned value is always considered to have an operational sign
and is an integer intermediate result. The number of digit positions
in the value returned is determined by the function definition. For
more information, see the IBM Rational Development
Studio for i: ILE COBOL Programmer's Guide.

Parent topic: Intrinsic Functions