EDTCDE (Edit Code) keyword in printer files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

EDTCDE (Edit Code) keyword in printer files

You use this keyword to edit output-capable
numeric fields.

The format of the keyword is:
EDTCDE(edit-code [* | floating-currency-symbol])Depending
on which edit code you specify, you can change the appearance of the printed
fields as follows:
Leading zeros are suppressed.

The field can be punctuated with commas and periods to show decimal position
and to group digits by threes.

Negative values can be printed with a minus sign or CR to the right.

Zero values can be printed as zeros or blanks.

Asterisks can be printed to the left of significant digits to provide
asterisk protection.

A currency symbol (corresponding to the system value QCURSYM)
can be printed immediately to the left of the farthest- right significant
digit (called a floating-currency symbol). For fixed-currency symbols,
use the EDTWRD keyword.

The field can be further edited using a user-defined edit code.

EDTCDE covers most editing requirements. Use the EDTWRD keyword
when EDTCDE is not sufficient.
EDTCDE is valid only for fields with
S or a blank in position 35 (Data Type).
You cannot specify EDTCDE and
EDTWRD for the same field. If you specify EDTCDE for a field previously defined
in a database file, you need not specify EDTCDE for the field that you are
defining. Instead, specify R in column 29 to refer to the previously defined
field. The editing specified for that field is included in the printer file.
If you specify length, data type, or decimal columns for a printer file field,
editing specified for the referenced field is not included in the printer
file and you must specify editing again in the printer file.
The DFT
keyword cannot be specified with the EDTCDE keyword.
Option indicators
are not valid for this keyword.
You can specify two kinds of edit codes: IBM® i edit codes and user-defined
edit codes.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the EDTCDE keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00050A PRICE 5 2 5 2EDTCDE(J *)
A