MNUBARDSP (Menu-Bar Display) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

MNUBARDSP (Menu-Bar Display) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword to display
a menu bar.

The MNUBARDSP keyword has two formats: one for records that contain
the MNUBAR keyword and one for records that do not contain a MNUBAR keyword.
The
format for MNUBARDSP when specified on a record that is not a menu bar record
is: MNUBARDSP(menu-bar-record &choice-field [&pull-down-input])
The
format for MNUBARDSP when specified on a menu bar record is: MNUBARDSP[(&pull-down-input)]
The
menu-bar-record parameter specifies the menu-bar record that is to be displayed
when this record is written. The menu-bar record must exist in the same file
as the record you are defining.
The &choice-field parameter specifies
the name of a hidden field, which on input contains the number of the choice
(if any) selected from the menu bar. The field must exist in the record you
are defining and it must be defined as numeric Y in position 35, usage H,
length 2, and decimal positions 0.
The &pull-down-input parameter
is optional and specifies the name of a hidden field that contains the input
from the pull-down menu when the pull-down menu contains only a single-choice
selection field. The field must exist in the record you are defining and it
must be defined as a length 2, decimal positions 0, and zoned (S in position
35) field with usage H (hidden). On input, this field contains one of the
following values:

Value
Meaning

0

No selection made.

n

Choice n in the pull-down menu was selected.

-1

Pull-down record contains something other than the one single-choice selection
field. You must read the pull-down record to receive its contents.

Option indicators are valid for the MNUBARDSP keyword,
and more than one MNUBARDSP keyword can be specified on the record if all
are optioned. If more than one MNUBARDSP keyword is in effect when the record
is written, the first one in effect is used.

Example 1The following example shows how to specify
the MNUBARDSP keyword on a record that is not a menu bar.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A
A R RECORD1
A 01 MNUBARDSP(MENURCD &MNUCHOICE &INPUT);
A FIELD1 10A B 10 12
A FIELD2 5S 0B 14 12
A MNUCHOICE 2Y 0H
A INPUT 2S 0H
A R MENURCD MNUBAR
A F1 2Y 0B 1 2
A MNUBARCHC(1 PULLFILE 'File')
A :
A :
AIn this example, if option indicator 01 is on when record
RECORD1 is written to the display, the system displays the menu bar in record
MENURCD. When the menu bar is activated and the pull-down menu is selected,
the number of the menu-bar choice is returned in field MNUCHOICE. If the pull-down
menu selected contains one single-choice selection field, the choice made
for that field is returned in field INPUT. Otherwise, field INPUT contains
-1, indicating that the application must read the pull-down record to receive
the pull-down input.

Example 2The following example shows how to specify
the MNUBARDSP keyword on a menu-bar record.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A R MENURCD MNUBAR
A 01 MNUBARDSP
A F1 2Y 0B 1 2
A MNUBARCHC(1 PULLFILE 'File')
A :
A :
AIf option indicator 01 is on when record MENURCD is written
to the display, the system displays the menu bar defined in MENURCD. If the
user selects a pull-down menu from the menu bar, the number of the menu-bar
choice selected is returned in F1 field.