MNUBARCHC (Menu-Bar Choice) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

MNUBARCHC (Menu-Bar Choice) keyword for display files

You use this field-level keyword to define
a choice for a menu-bar field.

A menu-bar choice represents a group of related actions
that the application user can select. A group of actions appears in
a pull-down menu when the user requests a menu-bar choice.
The
format of the keyword is: MNUBARCHC(choice-number pull-down-record choice-text
[&return-field])
The choice-number parameter
is required and specifies an identification number. The choice number
is returned to the application to indicate which choice in the menu
bar was selected. Valid values for the choice number are integers
1 to 99. Duplicate values within a single menu-bar field are not allowed.
The
pull-down-record parameter is required and specifies the name of the
pull-down record that is displayed when the user selects this choice.
The record specified must exist within the file and must contain a
PULLDOWN keyword.
The choice-text parameter is required and
defines the text that appears in the menu bar for the choice. The
parameter can be specified in one of two forms:
As a character string: 'Choice text '

As a program-to-system field: &field-name The field-name
specified must exist in the menu bar record and must be defined as
a character field with usage P.

The choice text must fit on one line of the display for
the smallest display size specified for the file. Because the text
for the first menu-bar choice on a line begins at position 3 and a
trailing blank is always inserted after the choice text, the maximum
length of the choice text is 76 if the smallest display size for the
file is 24 x 80 and 128 if the smallest display size for the file
is 27 x 132.
When the choice text contained in the character
string or the program-to-system field is displayed, trailing blanks
in the text are truncated and 3 blank spaces are inserted between
choices. However, the number of lines that the menu-bar field occupies
on the display is determined by the sum of the lengths of the choice-text
parameters, plus 3 blank spaces between each choice. The length of
the choice-text is either the length of the character string, excluding
trailing blanks, or the length of the program-to-system field. The
maximum number of lines that a menu bar field can occupy is 12 lines
(this includes the separator line).
Within the choice text,
you can specify a mnemonic for the choice by using a greater than
character (>) to indicate the mnemonic character. The character
to the right of the > is the mnemonic. Examples:

Choice text
Appears as

'>File'

File

'F>inish'

Finish

'Save >As...'

Save As...

'X >= 1'

X = 1

To specify a > as a character in the text,
you must specify it twice, just as you must specify the apostrophe
character twice in order to get a single apostrophe character in the
text.

Choice text
Appears as

'X >>= 1'

X >= 1

'X >>>= 1'

X >= 1

Note: It is not possible to specify the > as the
mnemonic character.

The mnemonic character indicated
must be a single-byte character and must not be a blank. Only one
mnemonic is allowed in the choice text, and the same mnemonic character
cannot be specified for more than one choice.
The return-field
parameter is optional and specifies whether control is returned to
the application because a menu bar choice was selected. This parameter
specifies the name of a hidden field in the menu-bar record that contains
the number of the choice selected when control is returned to the
application. The hidden field is defined as a data type Y (numeric),
the length of the field is two, and decimal positions are 0. The presence
of a choice number in this field indicates that control has been returned
to the application because a menu-bar choice was selected. The next
operation of the application updates (if necessary) and writes the
pull-down record associated with that choice; that is, the pull-down
record specified on the MNUBARCHC keyword for the choice. When a choice
number is returned in this field, zero is returned in the field that
contains the choice number after pull-down input has been received.
Likewise, when pull-down input has been received, zero is returned
in this field, and the presence of a choice number in menu-bar field
or the choice field in the application record indicates that the application
should process the pull-down input.
The menu bar field contained
in the MNUBARCHC keywords is defined as an input-capable field with
data type Y (numeric). The length of the field is two and decimal
positions 0. If the menu bar record is read, the number of the choice
selected (if any) is returned in the menu-bar field. The menu-bar
field must always be defined as starting in row 1, column 2.
When
MNUBARCHC is specified on a field, the MNUBAR keyword is required
at the record level.
Multiple MNUBARCHC keywords can be specified
for one menu bar field. The number of MNUBARCHC keywords that can
be specified is limited only by the lengths of the choice text parameters
(excluding trailing blanks in character string choice-text) and the
12 line limit for a MNUBAR. All the choices defined for a menu bar
field must fit on the screen, allowing for 3 spaces between each choice.
The
following keywords can be specified on a field with the MNUBARCHC
keyword:

ALIAS
CHCAVAIL
CHCSLT

INDTXT
MNUBARSEP
TEXT

 

Option indicators are valid for this keyword.

ExamplesThe following examples show how
to specify the MNUBARCHC keyword.

Example 1|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A DSPSIZ(*DS3 *DS4)
A R MENUBAR MNUBAR
A MNUFLD 2Y 0B 1 2
A MNUBARCHC(1 PULLFILE +
A '>File ')
A 01 MNUBARCHC(2 PULLEDIT +
A '>Edit ')
A MNUBARCHC(3 PULLVIEW +
A '>View ')
A MNUBARCHC(4 PULLOPT +
A '>Options ' &RTNFLD);
A MNUBARCHC(5 PULLHELP +
A '>Help ')
A RTNFLD 2Y 0HIn this example,
five menu bar choices (File, Edit, View, Options and Help) are defined
in a menu bar. If option indicator 01 is on and the menu bar record
is written before the system displays it, the Edit choice is displayed
when the system displays the menu bar. If option indicator 01 is off
or the menu-bar record is not written before the system displays it,
the Edit choice is not displayed. If the Edit choice is not displayed,
the list of choices are compressed and the View choice will follow
the File choice, with 3 blank spaces in between.
If the File
choice is selected, record PULLFILE is displayed as a pull-down menu
beneath the File choice. If the Options choice is selected, control
is returned to the application. The application can update the PULLOPT
record before the system displays it as a pull-down menu.
On
displays capable of a single-character underline, the mnemonic for
each choice is the first character in the text. If the menu-bar record
is read, the menu-bar field MNUFLD contains the number of the choice
selected, or 0 if no choice was selected.
The text for each
choice has been specified as a character string, with 15 spaces available
for the text. However, the trailing blanks are removed before the
system calculates how many choices fit on a line. Therefore, the maximum
space required for the menu bar is 87 positions (28 for the text within
the character strings, plus 3 spaces between each choice). The menu-bar
choices occupy one line. The menu-bar separator occupies one more
line; therefore the entire menu bar occupies two lines.

Example 2|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A DSPSIZ(*DS3 *DS4)
A R MENUBAR MNUBAR
A MNUFLD 2Y 0B 1 2
A MNUBARCHC(1 PULLFILE +
A &FILETXT);
A 01 MNUBARCHC(2 PULLEDIT +
A &EDITTXT);
A MNUBARCHC(3 PULLVIEW +
A &VIEWTXT);
A MNUBARCHC(4 PULLOPT +
A &OPTTXT &RTNFLD);
A MNUBARCHC(5 PULLHELP +
A &HELPTXT);
A FILETXT 15A P
A EDITTXT 15A P
A VIEWTXT 15A P
A OPTTXT 15A P
A HELPTXT 15A P
A RTNFLD 2Y 0H
AThis example is the same as example 1, except
that the choice text has been specified using program-to-system fields.
At
run time, the choice text to be displayed for each choice is retrieved
from the program-to-system fields. Any mnemonics must be specified
in the text supplied by the application at run time. As in example
1 when the menu-bar record is read, the menu-bar field MNUFLD contains
the number of the choice selected, or 0 if no choice was selected.
As
in example 1, the number of spaces available for the text for each
choice is 15. The maximum space required for the menu bar is 78 positions
(15 possible text positions for each of the 5 choices plus 3 spaces
between choices). Because the smallest display size is 24x80 (*DS3),
the menu-bar choices occupy 2 lines. The menu-bar separator occupies
one more line, so the entire menu bar occupies 3 lines. However, the
actual number of lines that is used to display the choices depends
on the text that is contained in the program-to-system fields. When
the menu bar is displayed, the trailing blanks in the P-fields are
truncated, and 3 blanks are inserted between each choice.

Example 3|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A R MENUBAR MNUBAR
A MNUFLD 2Y 0B 1 2
A MNUBARCHC(1 PULLFILE +
A '>File ')
A MNUBARCHC(2 PULLEDIT +
A '>Edit ' &RTNFLD);
A RTNFLD 2Y 0HIn this example,
if choice 2 in the menu bar is selected, control is returned to the
application and field RTNFLD contains the number 2. Field MNUFLD contains
0, indicating no pull-down input received. The application must read
record MENUBAR in order to get the contents of field RTNFLD. The application
must then write record PULLEDIT. The system resumes control of the
menu-bar interaction. If input is then entered in record PULLEDIT,
control is returned to the application, and field MNUFLD contains
number 2. Field RTNFLD contains 0, indicating control has been returned
because pull-down input was received.
If choice 1 is selected,
the system displays pull-down record PULLFILE. If input is entered
in PULLFILE, control is returned to the application, and field MNUFLD
contains number 1. Field RTNFLD contains 0, indicating control has
been returned because pull-down input was received.