CLEAR (Clear) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

CLEAR (Clear) keyword for display files

You use this file-level or record-level
keyword to specify that your program is to receive control if the workstation
user presses the Clear key, and optionally, that the IBM® i operating
system is to set on the specified response indicator.

See System/36 environment considerations for display files for special
considerations when you specify the CLEAR keyword in files that are used in
the System/36 environment.
The
format of the keyword is:
CLEAR[(response-indicator ['text'])]The Clear key is processed like a command attention key (no
input data is transmitted from the device). The IBM i operating
system does not clear the display; your program must perform the required
function (such as clearing fields or records from the display).
If you
do not specify this keyword and the display station user presses the Clear
key, the IBM i program
displays a message indicating that it is not valid at that time.
Note: On
display stations with the typewriter-like keyboard, the Clear key is activated
by pressing CMD, then pressing the Shift key and the left arrow above the
Field Exit key. On workstations with the data-entry keyboard, press CMD, then
press the Shift key and the farthest right blank key on the top row.
The
optional text is included on the printout created at program compilation time
to explain the intended use of the indicator. This text has no function in
the file or the program other than as a comment. The single quotation marks
are required. If you specify more than 50 characters between the single quotation
marks, the text is truncated to 50 characters on the program printout.
Option
indicators are valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the CLEAR keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00101A CLEAR(10 'Clear key pressed')
A