Setting and removing unconditional breakpoints

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging ILE programs > Setting and removing breakpoints > Setting and removing breakpoints

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging ILE programs > Setting and removing breakpoints

Setting and removing unconditional breakpoints
The system enables you to set and remove unconditional
breakpoints in several ways.
You can set or remove an unconditional breakpoint by using:
F6 (Add/Clear breakpoint) from the Display Module Source display
F13 (Work with Module Breakpoints) from the Display Module Source display
The BREAK debug command to set a breakpoint
The CLEAR debug command to remove a breakpoint

The simplest way to set and remove an unconditional breakpoint is
to use F6 (Add/Clear breakpoint) from the Display Module Source display. To
set an unconditional breakpoint using F6, place your cursor on the line to
which you want to add the breakpoint and press F6. An unconditional breakpoint
is then set on the line. To remove an unconditional breakpoint, place your
cursor on the line from which you want to remove the breakpoint and press
F6. The breakpoint is then removed from the line.
Repeat the previous
steps for each unconditional breakpoint you want to set. Note: If the line
on which you want to set a breakpoint is not a runnable statement, the breakpoint
is set at the next runnable statement.

After the breakpoints are set, press F3 (Exit) to leave the Display
Module Source display. You can also use F21 (Command Line) from the Display
Module Source display to call the program from a command line.
Call
the program object. When a breakpoint is reached, the program stops and the
Display Module Source display is shown again. At this point, you can evaluate
variables, set more breakpoints, and run any of the debug commands.
An
alternate method of setting and removing unconditional breakpoints is to use
the BREAK and CLEAR debug commands.
To set an unconditional breakpoint
by using the BREAK debug command, type the following on the debug command
line:
BREAK line-number
Line-number is the line number in
the currently displayed view of the module object on which you want to set
a breakpoint.
To remove an unconditional breakpoint by using the CLEAR
debug command, type the following on the debug command line:
CLEAR line-number
Line-number is the line number in
the currently displayed view of the module object from which you want to remove
a breakpoint.

If using the statement view, there is no line numbers displayed.
To set unconditional breakpoints in the statement view, type the following
on the debug command line:
BREAK procedure-name/statement-number
Procedure-name is the name of your
CL module. Statement-number(from the compiler listing)
is the statement number where you wanted to stop.

Parent topic: Setting and removing breakpoints