References to SQL parameters and SQL variables

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > SQL control statements > SQL control statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > SQL control statements

References to SQL parameters and SQL variables
SQL parameters and SQL variables can be referenced anywhere
in an SQL procedure statement where an expression or variable can
be specified.
Host variables cannot be specified in SQL functions,
SQL procedures, SQL triggers, or compound (dynamic) statements.
SQL parameters can be referenced anywhere in the routine and can be
qualified with the routine name. SQL variables can be referenced anywhere
in the compound statement in which they are declared, including any
statement that is directly or indirectly nested within that compound
statement. If the compound statement where the variable is declared
has a label, references to the variable name can be qualified with
that label
All SQL parameters and SQL variables are considered
nullable except SQL variables that are explicitly declared as NOT
NULL. The name of an SQL parameter or SQL variable in an SQL routine
can be the same as the name of a column in a table or view referenced
in the routine. The name of an SQL variable can also be the same as
the name of another SQL variable declared in the same routine. This
can occur when the two SQL variables are declared in different compound-statements.
The compound-statement that contains the declaration of an
SQL variable determines the scope of that variable. See compound-statement, for more information.
Names that are the same should be explicitly
qualified. Qualifying a name clearly indicates whether the name refers
to a column, global variable, SQL variable, or SQL parameter. If the
name is not qualified, or qualified but still ambiguous, the following
rules describe how the name is resolved. The name is resolved by checking
for a match in the following order:
If the tables and views specified in an SQL routine body exist
at the time the routine is created, the name will first be checked
as a column name.
If not found as a column, it will then be checked as an SQL variable
name. The SQL variable can be declared within the compound-statement that
contains the reference, or within a compound statement in which that
compound statement is nested. If two SQL variables are within the
same scope and have the same name,1 the SQL variable that
is declared in the innermost compound statement is used.
If not found as an SQL variable name, the name will be checked
as an SQL parameter name.

If the name is still not resolved as a column,
SQL variable, or SQL parameter and the scope of the name included
a table or view that does not exist at the current server, it will
be assumed to be a column or global variable. If all the tables and
views exist at the current server, it will be assumed to be a global
variable. If the SQL_GVAR_BUILD_RULE QAQQINI option
is *EXIST and the global variable does not exist, an error will be
issued.
The name of an SQL variable or SQL parameter in an SQL
routine can be the same as the name of an identifier used in certain
SQL statements. If the name is not qualified, the following rules
describe whether the name refers to the identifier or to the SQL parameter
or SQL variable. Qualified SQL parameters and SQL
variables are not supported for these names.
In the SET PATH and SET SCHEMA statements, the name is checked
as an SQL parameter name or SQL variable name. If not found as an
SQL variable or SQL parameter name, it will then be used as an identifier.
In the CONNECT, DISCONNECT, RELEASE, and SET CONNECTION statements,
the name is used as an identifier.
In the CALL statement, the name is used as an identifier.
In the ASSOCIATE LOCATORS and DESCRIBE PROCEDURE statements
when used in a CREATE TRIGGER statement, the name is used as an identifier.

Parent topic: SQL control statements

1 Which can happen if they are
declared in different compound statements.