XML-SAX (Parse an XML Document)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes > Operation Codes

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes

XML-SAX (Parse an XML Document)

Free-Form Syntax

XML-SAX{(E)} %HANDLER(handlerProc : commArea)
%XML(xmlDoc {: options });

Code

Factor 1

Extended Factor 2

XML-SAX{(E)}

 

%HANDLER(handlerProc : commArea)
%XML(xmlDoc {: options })

Tip: If you are not familiar with the basic
concepts of XML and of processing XML documents, you may find it helpful
to read the "Processing XML Documents" section in Rational® Development Studio for i: ILE RPG Programmer's Guide before
reading further in this section.

XML-SAX initiates a SAX parse for an XML document. The XML-SAX
operation code begins by calling an XML parser which begins to parse
the document. When an event occurs such as the parser finding the
start of an element, finding an attribute name, finding the end of
an element and so on, the parser calls the handling procedure handlerProc with
parameters describing the event. When the handling procedure returns,
the parser continues to parse until it finds the next event and calls
the handling procedure again. When the parser has finished parsing
the document, control passes to the statement following the XML-SAX
operation.

The first operand must be the %HANDLER built-in function; handlerProc is
a prototype name that specifies the procedure to be called to handle
the SAX events and commArea is the communication-area parameter
to be passed by the parser to the handling procedure. The communication-area
parameter must be the same type as the first prototyped parameter
of the handling procedure. It provides a way for the procedure specifying
the XML-SAX operation code to communicate with the handling procedure,
and for the handling procedure to save information related to the
parse from one event to the next. See %HANDLER (handlingProcedure : communicationArea ) for more
information on %HANDLER.

The second operand must be the %XML built-in function, identifying
the XML document to be parsed and the options controlling the way
the parsing is done. See %XML (xmlDocument {:options}) for more information
on %XML.

Operation extender E can be specified to handle the following status
codes:

00351

Error in XML parsing

00352

Invalid XML option

00354

Error preparing for XML parsing

For status 00351, the return code from the parser will be placed
in the subfield "External return code" in positions 368-371 of the
PSDS. This subfield will be set to zero at the beginning of the operation
and set to the value returned by the parser at the end of the operation.
This subfield is relevant only in a module that has an XML-SAX operation.
SAX event-handling procedures receive the information from the parser
as parameters.

The event-handling procedure will not be called if an exception
occurs before parsing begins. For example, if the specified file is
not found, the operation will end immediately with status 00354 and
the event-handling procedure will never get control.

If an error occurs during parsing, the handling procedure will
be called with a *XML_EXCEPTION event, and when the handling procedure
returns, parsing will end and the XML-SAX operation will fail with
status code 00351. The return code from the parser will be placed
in the "External return code" subfield in positions 368 - 371 of the
PSDS.

If an unknown, invalid or unrelated option is found in the %XML
options string, XML-SAX will fail with status code 00352. The External
return code subfield in positions 368 - 371 of the PSDS will not be
updated from the initial value of zero, set when the operation begins.

%XML options for the XML-SAX operation code

XML-SAX event-handling procedure

XML events

Examples of the XML-SAX operation

Parent topic: Operation Codes