Subprocedure Definition

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > Procedures and the Program Logic Cycle > Procedures and the Program Logic Cycle

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > Procedures and the Program Logic Cycle

Subprocedure Definition

A subprocedure is a procedure
defined after the main source section.

A subprocedure differs from a cycle-main procedure in
several respects, the main difference being that a subprocedure does
not (and cannot) use the RPG cycle while running.

A subprocedure may have a corresponding prototype in
the definition specifications of the main source section. If specified,
the prototype is used by the compiler to call the program or procedure
correctly, and to ensure that the caller passes the correct parameters.
If not specified, the prototype is implicitly generated from the procedure
interface.

Tip:
Although it is optional to specify a prototype within the module
that defines the procedure, it should not be considered optional when
it is exported from the module, and the procedure will be called from
other RPG modules. In this case, a prototype should be specified in
a copy file and copied into the module that defines the subprocedure
and into every module that calls the subprocedure.

The following
examples show a subprocedure, highlighting
the different parts of it.
It is shown first using free-form definitions,
and second using fixed-form definitions.

The procedure performs a function on the 3 numeric values
passed to it as value parameters.
The example illustrates how a procedure interface is specified for a
procedure and how values are returned from a procedure.

A subprocedure may optionally have an ON-EXIT section containing code
that runs every time the procedure ends.
This code runs whether the procedure ends normally or abnormally.
See ON-EXIT (On Exit) for more information.

Figure 1. Example of a Free-Form Subprocedure

// Prototype for procedure FUNCTION
DCL-PR Function INT(10); 1
TERM1 INT(5) VALUE;
TERM2 INT(5) VALUE;
TERM3 INT(5) VALUE;
END-PR;

DCL-PROC Function; 2
DCL-PI *N INT(10); 3
TERM1 INT(5) VALUE;
TERM2 INT(5) VALUE;
TERM3 INT(5) VALUE;
END-PI;
DCL-S Result INT(10); 4

Result = Term1 ** 2 * 17
+ Term2 * 7 5
+ Term3;
return Result * 45 + 23;
END-PROC; 6

Figure 2. Example of a Fixed-Form Subprocedure

* Prototype for procedure FUNCTION
D FUNCTION PR 10I 0 1
D TERM1 5I 0 VALUE
D TERM2 5I 0 VALUE
D TERM3 5I 0 VALUE

P Function B 2
D Function PI 10I 0 3
D Term1 5I 0 VALUE
D Term2 5I 0 VALUE
D Term3 5I 0 VALUE
D Result S 10I 0 4

Result = Term1 ** 2 * 17
+ Term2 * 7 5
+ Term3;
return Result * 45 + 23;

P E 6

1

A Prototype which specifies the name, return value
if any, and parameters if any. Since the procedure is not exported
from this module, it is optional to specify the prototype.

2

A Begin-Procedure specification

3

A Procedure-Interface definition,
which specifies the return value and parameters,
if any. The procedure interface must match the corresponding prototype.
The procedure-interface definition is optional if the subprocedure
does not return a value and does not have any parameters that are
passed to it. If the prototype had not been specified, the procedure-interface
definition would be used by the compiler to implicitly define the
prototype.

4

Other local definitions.

5

Any calculation specifications, standard or
free-form, needed to perform the task of the procedure. The calculations
may refer to both local and global definitions.
Any subroutines included within the subprocedure are local. They cannot
be used outside of the subprocedure. If the subprocedure returns a
value, then the subprocedure must contain a RETURN operation.

6

An End-Procedure specification

Except for the procedure-interface definition, which may be placed
anywhere within the definition specifications, a subprocedure must
be coded in the order shown above.

No cycle code is generated for subprocedures. Consequently, you
cannot code:

Prerun-time and compile-time arrays and tables

*DTAARA definitions

Total calculations

The calculation specifications are processed only once and the
procedure returns at the end of the calculation specifications. See Subprocedure Calculations for more information.

A subprocedure may be exported, meaning that procedures in other
modules in the program can call it. To indicate that it is to be exported,
specify the keyword EXPORT on the Procedure-Begin specification. If
not specified, the subprocedure can only be called from within the
module.

Procedure Interface Definition

Return Values

Scope of Definitions

Subprocedures and Subroutines

Parent topic: Procedures and the Program Logic Cycle