SIZE Phrase

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > DISPLAY Statement > Format 3 – Extended DISPLAY Statement > Format 3 – Extended DISPLAY Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > DISPLAY Statement > Format 3 – Extended DISPLAY Statement

SIZE Phrase
Specifies the current size of the data item on the screen. You can use
this phrase with elementary data items only.
identifier-4, integer-3
Identifier-4 must be an unsigned numeric integer, and must not be subject
to an OCCURS clause. Integer-3 must be unsigned.
If identifier-4 or integer-3
has a sign, the compiler uses the absolute value, and issues a warning message.

Identifier-4 cannot be a floating-point data item.

The SIZE phrase has no effect if the size you specify is zero. In this
case, the length of the field is used to display the data item.
If you specify a size that is less than the size implied by the associated
PICTURE clause, only the leftmost portion of the data item appears on the
workstation display.
When the size specified for a numeric or a numeric-edited data item is
less than that implied by the PICTURE clause, truncation of the rightmost
positions occurs when the value is displayed, or predisplayed in the ACCEPT
operation. The data item is then updated following the rules for the MOVE
operation.
If you specify a SIZE literal whose value causes the field length to exceed
the screen size, alphanumeric data will be truncated and numeric data will
be ignored and not displayed.
For justified items, only the rightmost portion appears when you specify
a size that is smaller than the length of the item.
If the size you specify is greater than the size implied by the PICTURE
clause, the displayed version of the item is padded with spaces. The padding
occurs on the right.
ALL figurative constants are displayed as many times as necessary to reach
the length you specify. If the display wraps around to a new line, the new
line starts at the beginning of the constant.
Related Information:
SIZE Phrase Example

Parent topic: Format 3 – Extended DISPLAY Statement