XML assignments

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Assignments and comparisons > Assignments and comparisons

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Assignments and comparisons

XML assignments
The following rules apply when the assignment target is
XML.
The general rule for XML assignments is that only an XML
value can be assigned to an XML column or an XML variable. There are
exceptions to this rule as follows:
Processing of input XML variables: This is a special case
of the XML assignment rule because the variable is based on a string
value. To make the assignment to XML within SQL, the string value
is implicitly parsed into an XML value using the setting of the CURRENT
IMPLICIT XMLPARSE OPTION special register. This determines whether
to preserve or to strip whitespace, unless the variable is an argument
of the XMLVALIDATE function which always strips unnecessary whitespace.
Assigning strings to input parameter markers of data type XML: If
an input parameter marker has an implicit or explicit data type of
XML, the value assigned to that parameter marker could be a character
string variable, graphic string variable, or binary string variable.
In this case, the string value is implicitly parsed into an XML value
using the setting of the CURRENT IMPLICIT XMLPARSE OPTION special
register. This determines whether to preserve or to strip whitespace,
unless the parameter marker is an argument of the XMLVALIDATE function
which always strips unnecessary whitespace.
Assigning strings directly to XML columns in data change statements: If
assigning directly to a column of type XML in a data change statement,
the assigned expression can also be a character string, a graphic
string, or a binary string. In this case, the result of XMLPARSE (DOCUMENT expression STRIP
WHITESPACE) is assigned to the target column. The supported string
data types are defined by the supported arguments for the XMLPARSE
function. This exception also applies to SQL parameters of type XML.
Assigning XML to strings on retrieval: If retrieving XML
values into variables using a FETCH or SELECT INTO in embedded SQL,
the data type of the variable can be CLOB, DBCLOB, or BLOB. The XML
value is implicitly serialized to a string encoded in the variable's
CCSID. If using other application programming interfaces (such as
CLI, JDBC, or .NET), XML values can be retrieved into the character,
graphic, or binary string types that are supported by the application
programming interface. In all these cases, the XML value is implicitly
serialized to a string encoded in the CCSID determined by the QAQQINI
file as described in XML Values.

For the FETCH, SELECT INTO, SET, and VALUES INTO statements,
character string, graphic string, or binary string values cannot be
retrieved into XML variables. For the INSERT, UPDATE, MERGE, SET,
VALUES INTO, and CALL statements, values in XML variables cannot be
assigned to columns, SQL variables, or SQL parameters of a character,
graphic, or binary string data type.

Parent topic: Assignments and comparisons