CSRLOC (Cursor Location) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

CSRLOC (Cursor Location) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword to specify
the cursor location on an output operation to the record format that
you are defining. Your program sends the output operation after setting
the cursor location.

The format of the keyword is:
CSRLOC(field-name-1 field-name-2)The
parameter values on the keyword specify the names of two fields whose
contents are the line number (for field-name-1) and the position number
(for field-name-2) of the cursor location. Field-name-1 and field-name-2
are 3-byte, zoned decimal, hidden fields. Your program uses these
fields to tell the IBM® i operating
system where to locate the cursor.
The cursor is not positioned
to the required location on an output operation that leaves the keyboard
locked. The cursor does not move to the required position until your
program sends an input or an output operation that unlocks the keyboard.
If your program sets the cursor location fields to values outside
the range of values valid for the display device, this keyword is
ignored.
For any one output operation, the CSRLOC keyword overrides
any other cursor location specifications, such as DSPATR(PC) and SFLRCDNBR(CURSOR),
that are in effect. This keyword is in effect until your program sends
another output operation with DSPATR(PC), CSRLOC, or SFLRCDNBR(CURSOR)
in effect or until the record in which this keyword is specified is
overlaid (OVERLAY keyword) or erased (ERASE keyword), whichever comes
first.
On an input operation, the cursor location can be determined
by looking at the I/O feedback area or specifying the appropriate
parameter on the RTNCSRLOC keyword. See the Application Display
Programming book for more information about the I/O feedback
area.
Specify the CSRLOC keyword only once per record format.
The
CSRLOC keyword is not valid for the following record formats:

Subfile record formats (identified by the SFL keyword)

User-defined record formats (identified by the USRDFN keyword)

Option indicators are valid for this keyword. Display size
condition names are not valid.

ExampleThe following example shows how
to specify the CSRLOC keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R RECORD1 CSRLOC(LINNBR POSNBR)
00020A TITLE 40 B 1 2
00030A PAGE 5Y OB 1 60
00040A TEXT 1760 B 2 1
00050A LINNBR 3 OH
00060A POSNBR 3 OH
AThe application program sets the contents of
LINNBR and POSNBR before issuing an output operation to RECORD1. When
the record is displayed, the fields Title, Page, and Text appear
on the display. The cursor can be at some location in a field of RECORD1
where the workstation user is to make changes.