ALTER PERMISSION

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

ALTER PERMISSION
The ALTER PERMISSION statement alters a row permission
that exists at the current server.
InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared.
AuthorizationThe authorization ID of the
statement must have security administrator authority. See Administrative authority.
Syntax ALTER PERMISSIONpermission-nameENABLEDISABLEREGENERATE
Description permission-name
Identifies
the row permission to be altered. It must identify a row permission
that exists at the current server. It cannot be a default permission.
ENABLE, DISABLE, or REGENERATE
ENABLE
Specifies that the row permission is to be enabled for row access
control. If row access control is not currently activated for the
table, the row permission will become effective when row access control
is activated for the table. If row access control is currently activated
for the table, the row permission becomes effective immediately.
A row permission that gets an error when trying to be enabled
cannot be enabled until any errors in the permission definition are
resolved. This may require the row permission to be dropped and recreated
with a modified definition.
ENABLE is ignored if the row permission is already defined as
enabled for row access control.
DISABLE
Specifies that the row permission is to be disabled for row access
control. If row access control is not currently activated for the
table, the row permission will remain ineffective when row access
control is activated for the table. If row access control is currently
activated for the table, the row permission becomes ineffective.
If row access control is currently activated for the table and
all row permissions are disabled, a default row permission that allows
no access to any row of the table will be used.
DISABLE is ignored if the row permission is already defined as
disabled for row access control.
REGENERATE
Specifies that the row permission is to be regenerated. The row
permission definition in the catalog is used and existing dependencies
and authorizations, if any, are retained. The row permission definition
is reevaluated as if the row permission were being created. The user-defined
functions that are referenced in the row permission must be resolved
to the same secure UDFs as were resolved during the row permission
creation.

ExamplesExample 1: Enable permission
P1.
ALTER PERMISSION P1 ENABLE
Example
2: Disable permission P1.
ALTER PERMISSION P1 DISABLE
Example
3: Regenerate permission P1.
ALTER PERMISSION P1 REGENERATE

Parent topic: Statements