Call message queue

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Message queues > Job message queues > Job message queues

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Message queues > Job message queues

Call message queue
A call message queue is used to send messages between one program
or procedure and another program or procedure.
As long as a program or procedure is on the call stack (has not returned
yet), its call message queue is active and messages can be sent to that program
or procedure. After the program or procedure returns, messages can no longer
be sent to it. Message types which can be sent to a call message queue include
informational, request, completion, diagnostic, status, escape, and notify.
The call message queue for an OPM program or ILE procedure is created when
that program or procedure is called. The call message queue is exclusively
associated only with the call stack entry in which the program or procedure
is running. A call message queue is identified indirectly by identifying the
call stack entry. A call stack entry is identified by the name of the program
or procedure that is running in that call stack entry.
In the case of an OPM program, the associated call stack entry is identified
by the (up to) 10 character program name. In the case of an ILE procedure,
the associated call stack entry is identified by a three part name which consists
of the (up to) 4096 character procedure name, the (up to) 10 character module
name, and the (up to) 10 character program name. The module name is the name
of the module into which the procedure was compiled. The ILE program name
is the name of the ILE program into which the module was bound.
When identifying the call stack entry for an ILE procedure, it is sufficient
to specify only the procedure name. If the procedure name by itself does
not uniquely identify the call stack entry, the module name or the ILE program
name can also be specified. If, at the time a message is sent, a program or
procedure is on the call stack more than once, the name specified will identify
the most recently called occurrence of that program or procedure.
If an OPM or ILE program is compiled and then replaced while it is on the
call stack, care must be taken when the program name is used to reference
a call stack entry. For call stack entries that are earlier on the stack than
the point at which the replace operation was done, the name reference will
resolve to the replaced object which now exists in QRPLOBJ. These name references
are valid as long as the replaced object continues to exist in the QRPLOBJ
library. For entries on the stack that are more recent than the point at which
the replace operation was done, the name reference is for the new version
of the program. Because of the manner in which the version to use is determined,
you should not place a program directly in the library QRPLOBJ. This library
should be used exclusively for the replaced version of a program. A name reference
to a program that you place directly into QRPLOBJ will fail.
If a program object is removed or renamed while an occurrence of it is
on the call stack, any name reference to the removed program or any name reference
using the old name will fail. For ILE procedures, if you are using only the
procedure and module name for a reference, renaming the program will not impact
the name reference. If you are also using the ILE program name, the name
reference will fail.
A message queue for a call stack entry of a program or procedure is no
longer available when the program or procedure ends. A message
that was on the associated call message queue can only be referenced at that
point by using the message reference key of the message.
For example, assume that procedure A calls procedure B which calls procedure
C. Procedure C sends a message to procedure B and ends. The message is available
to procedure B. However, when procedure B ends, its call message queue is
no longer available. As a result, you cannot access procedure B by using procedure
A, even though the message appears in the job log. Procedure A cannot access
messages that are sent to Procedure B unless Procedure A has the message reference
key to that message.
If procedure A needs to delete specific messages, you could do the following:
Have procedure C send specific messages to procedure A
Have procedure B move or resend the messages to procedure A

The following figure shows the relationship of procedure calls, the job
message queue, and the call stack entry queues. Procedure A sends a message
to itself and to *EXT, and then calls procedure B. Procedure B calls Procedure
C. Procedure C sends a message to its caller (Procedure B) and then calls
Procedure D. Procedure D sends a message to itself and calls Procedure B.
A connecting line (-----) indicates which message queue is associated with
which call of a procedure.
In the preceding figure, procedure B has two call stack entry queues, one
for each call of the procedure. There are no message queues for procedure
C because no messages were sent to procedure C. When procedure C sends a message
to procedure B, the message goes to the call stack entry queue for the last
call of procedure B. Note: When you are using the command entry display,
you can display all the messages sent to the job message queue by pressing
F10 (Include detailed messages). After the messages are displayed, you can
roll through them using one of the roll keys.

You can also display the messages for a job by using the Display
Job Log (DSPJOBLOG) command.

Parent topic: Job message queues

Related tasks
Receiving a message from a program or procedure that has ended
Identifying a call stack entry