UNIQUE (Unique) keyword for physical and logical files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Keyword entries for physical and logical files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Keyword entries for physical and logical files (positions 45 through 80)

UNIQUE (Unique) keyword for physical and logical files

You can use this file-level keyword to specify that
records with duplicate key values are not allowed within a member of this
physical or logical file.

You can specify whether null key values are to be
considered as duplicates using the parameter. Any insertions or additions
of new records, or updates to existing records, which might result in a duplicate
key, are rejected. The application program issuing the write or the update
operation receives an error message. When a workstation user is using data
file utility (DFU), a message is displayed at the workstation. A copy file
command that copies records with duplicate keys in this file is not completed.
The
format of this keyword is: UNIQUE[(*INCNULL | *EXCNULL)]The
parameter is optional. When specified, it determines whether null key values
cause duplicates. *INCNULL is the default and indicates to include null values
when determining duplicates. *EXCNULL, when specified, indicates to exclude
null values when determining duplicates.
When a logical file based on
a physical file has the UNIQUE keyword, the physical file member or members
cannot have duplicate key values.
When you specify the UNIQUE keyword
for a physical or logical file, you must specify the MAINT(*IMMED) parameter
value on the Create Physical File (CRTPF) or Create Logical File (CRTLF) command
that creates the file. This means that the access path is maintained immediately
when changes are made.
If you do not specify the UNIQUE keyword, records
with duplicate key values are sequenced in the order you specify. If you specify
the FIFO keyword, they are sequenced in first-in first-out order. If you specify
the LIFO keyword, they are sequenced in last-in first-out order. If you specify
the FCFO keyword, they are sequenced in first-changed first-out order. If
you do not specify FIFO, LIFO or FCFO, the order in which the records are
sequenced is not guaranteed.
You cannot specify the UNIQUE keyword with
the FIFO, LIFO, FCFO, or REFACCPTH keywords.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the UNIQUE keyword for a logical file.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A*
00020A* SAMPLE LOGICAL FILE (CUSMSTL)
00030A*
00040A UNIQUE
00050A R CUSREC PFILE(CUSMSTP)
00060A TEXT('Logical File Master Record')
00070A CUST
00080A NAME
00090A ADDR
00100A K CUST
A