Subprocedure Calculations

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > Procedures and the Program Logic Cycle > RPG Cycle and other implicit Logic > RPG Cycle and other implicit Logic

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > Procedures and the Program Logic Cycle > RPG Cycle and other implicit Logic

Subprocedure Calculations

No cycle code is generated for a subprocedure, and so
you must code it differently than you would code a cycle-main
procedure. The subprocedure ends when one of the following occurs:

A RETURN operation is processed

The last calculation in the body of the subprocedure is processed.

Figure 1 shows the normal processing steps for a subprocedure. Figure 2 shows the exception/error handling sequence.

Figure 1. Normal Processing
Sequence for a Subprocedure

1

Taking the "No" branch means that another procedure has already
been called since the program was activated. You should ensure that
you do not make any incorrect assumptions about the state of files,
data areas, etc., since another procedure may have closed files, or
unlocked data areas.

2

If an entry parameter to the main procedure is RESET
anywhere in the module, this will cause an exception. If it is possible
that a subprocedure will be called before the main procedure, it is
not advised to RESET any entry parameters for the cycle-main
procedure.

Figure 2. Exception/Error Handling
Sequence for a Subprocedure

Here are some points to consider when coding subprocedures:

There is no *INZSR associated with subprocedures. Data
is initialized (with either INZ values or default values) when the
subprocedure is first called, but before the calculations begin.
Note
also that if the subprocedure is the first procedure
to be called in a module, the *INZSR of the cycle-main procedure (if
present) will not be run, although other initialization of global
data will be done. The *INZSR of the cycle-main procedure will be
run when the cycle-main procedure is called.

When a subprocedure returns normally, the return value,
if specified on the prototype of the called program or procedure,
is passed to the caller. Nothing else occurs automatically. All files
and data areas must be closed manually. Files must be written out
manually. You can set on the LR or RT indicators, but it will have
no immediate effect on the program termination. If the the subprocedure
was called by a cycle-main procedure, the setting of the LR or RT
indicators would take effect when the RPG cycle reached the point
at which RPG checks those indicators.

Exception handling within a subprocedure differs from
a cycle-main procedure primarily because there is no default exception
handler for subprocedures and so situations where the default handler
would be called for a cycle-main procedure correspond to abnormal
end of the subprocedure. For example, Factor 2 of an ENDSR operation
for a *PSSR subroutine within a subprocedure must be blank. A blank
Factor 2 of the ENDSR for the *PSSR subroutine in a cycle-main procedure
would result in control being passed to the default handler. In a
subprocedure, if the ENDSR of the *PSSR subroutine is reached, then
the subprocedure will end abnormally and RNX9001 will be signalled
to the caller of the subprocedure.
You can avoid abnormal termination
either by coding a RETURN operation in the *PSSR, or by coding a GOTO
and label in the subprocedure to continue processing.

The *PSSR
error subroutine is local to the subprocedure.

You cannot code an INFSR in a subprocedure, nor can you use a
file for which an INFSR is coded.

Indicators that control the cycle function solely as conditioning
indicators when used in a linear module (MAIN or NOMAIN on control
specification); or in a subprocedure that is active, but where the
cycle-main procedure of the module is not. Indicators that control
the cycle include: LR, RT, H1-H9, and control level indicators.

Parent topic: RPG Cycle and other implicit Logic