ENCRYPT_AES

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

ENCRYPT_AES
The ENCRYPT_AES function returns a value that is the result
of encrypting data-string using the AES
encryption algorithm. The password used for decryption is either the password-string value
or the encryption password value (assigned by the SET ENCRYPTION PASSWORD
statement).
ENCRYPT_AES(data-string,password-string,hint-string)
data-string
An expression that returns the string value to be encrypted. The
string expression must be a built-in string data type. The length
attribute for the data type of data-string is
limited to 24 bytes (or 32 bytes) less than the maximum length of
the result data type without a hint-string argument
and 56 bytes (or 64 bytes) less than the maximum length of the result
data type when the hint-string argument
is specified.

password-string
An expression that returns a character string value with at least
6 bytes and no more than 127 bytes. The expression must not be a CLOB
and the CCSID of the expression must not be 65535. The value represents
the password used to encrypt the data-string.
If the value of the password argument is null or not provided, the
data will be encrypted using the ENCRYPTION PASSWORD value, which
must have been set using the SET ENCRYPTION PASSWORD statement.
hint-string
An expression that returns a character string value with up to
32 bytes that will help data owners remember passwords (For example,
'Ocean' is a hint to remember 'Pacific'). The expression must not
be a CLOB and the CCSID of the expression must not be 65535. If a
hint value is specified, the hint is embedded into the result and
can be retrieved using the GETHINT function. If the password-string is
specified and this argument is the null value or not provided, no
hint will be embedded in the result. If the password-string is
not specified, the hint may be specified using the SET ENCRYPTION
PASSWORD statement.

The data type of the result is determined by the first
argument as shown in the following table:
Data Type of the First Argument
Data Type of the Result

BINARY or VARBINARY
VARBINARY

CHAR, VARCHAR, GRAPHIC, or VARGRAPHIC
VARCHAR FOR BIT DATA

BLOB, CLOB, or DBCLOB
BLOB

The length attribute of the result depends on the arguments
that are specified:
When a password-string is specified
but a hint-string is not specified, the
length attribute of data-string plus 24
plus the number of bytes to a 16 byte boundary.
Otherwise, the length attribute of data-string plus
64 plus the number of bytes to a 16 byte boundary.

The actual length of the result is the sum of :The actual length of data-string plus
a number of bytes to get to a 16 byte boundary.
The actual length of the hint. The actual length of the hint
is zero if hint-string is not specified
as a function argument or on the SET ENCRYPTION PASSWORD statement.

n, where n (the
amount of overhead necessary to encrypt the value) is 24 bytes (or
32 bytes if data-string is a LOB or different
CCSID values are used for the data-string,
the password, or the hint).

If the first argument can be null, the result can be null;
if the first argument is null, the result is the null value.
Note that the encrypted result is longer than the data-string value.
Therefore, when assigning encrypted values, ensure that the target
is declared with sufficient size to contain the entire encrypted value.
NotesPassword
protection: To prevent inadvertent access to the encryption password,
do not specify password-string as a string
constant in the source for a program, procedure, or function. Instead,
use the SET ENCRYPTION PASSWORD statement or a host variable.
When
connected to a remote relational database, the specified password
itself is sent "in the clear". That is, the password itself is not
encrypted. To protect the password in these cases, consider using
a communications encryption mechanism such as IPSEC (or SSL if connecting
between IBM® i products).
Encryption
algorithm: The internal encryption algorithm used is from the
CLiC Toolkit from IBM Research. The 128-bit encryption key is derived from the
password using a SHA1 message digest.
Encryption passwords
and data: It is the user's responsibility to perform password
management. Once the data is encrypted only the password used to encrypt
it can be used to decrypt it. Be careful when using CHAR variables
to set password values as they may be padded with blanks. The encrypted
result may contain a null terminator and other non-printable characters.
Table
column definition: When defining columns and distinct types to
contain encrypted data:
The column must be defined with a data type of CHAR FOR BIT DATA,
VARCHAR FOR BIT DATA, BINARY, VARBINARY, or BLOB.
The length attribute of the column must include an additional n bytes,
where n is the overhead necessary to encrypt
the data as described above.

Any assignment or cast to a column without one of these data
types or with a length shorter than the suggested data length may
result in an assignment error or, if the assignment is successful,
a failure and lost data when the data is subsequently decrypted. Blanks
are valid encrypted data values that may be truncated when stored
in a column that is too short.
Some sample column length calculations:
Maximum length of non-encrypted data 6 bytes
Number of bytes to the next 16 byte boundary 10 bytes
Overhead 24 bytes (or 32 bytes)
--------
Encrypted data column length 40 bytes (or 48 bytes)

Maximum length of non-encrypted data 32 bytes
Number of bytes to a 16 byte boundary 0 bytes
Overhead 24 bytes (or 32 bytes)
--------
Encrypted data column length 56 bytes
Administration
of encrypted data: Encrypted data can only be decrypted on servers
that support the decryption functions that correspond to the ENCRYPT_AES
function. Hence, replication of columns with encrypted data should
only be done to servers that support the decryption functions.
ExampleAssume that table EMP1 has a social security column called SSN.
This example uses the ENCRYPTION PASSWORD value to hold the encryption
password.   SET ENCRYPTION PASSWORD = 'Ben123'

  INSERT INTO EMP1 (SSN) VALUES ENCRYPT_AES( '289-46-8832' )

This example explicitly passes the encryption password.   INSERT INTO EMP1 (SSN) VALUES ENCRYPT_AES( '289-46-8832', 'Ben123' )

The hint 'Ocean' is stored to help the user remember the encryption
password 'Pacific'.   INSERT INTO EMP1 (SSN) VALUES ENCRYPT_AES( '289-46-8832', 'Pacific', 'Ocean' )

Parent topic: Scalar functions