File Operations

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operations > Operations

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operations

File Operations

The file operation codes are:

ACQ (Acquire)

CHAIN (Random Retrieval from a File)

CLOSE (Close Files)

COMMIT (Commit)

DELETE (Delete Record)

EXCEPT (Calculation Time Output)

EXFMT (Write/Then Read Format)

FEOD (Force End of Data)

FORCE (Force a Certain File to Be Read Next Cycle)

NEXT (Next)

OPEN (Open File for Processing)

POST (Post)

READ (Read a Record)

READC (Read Next Changed Record)

READE (Read Equal Key)

READP (Read Prior Record)

READPE (Read Prior Equal)

REL (Release)

ROLBK (Roll Back)

SETGT (Set Greater Than)

SETLL (Set Lower Limit)

UNLOCK (Unlock a Data Area or Release a Record)

UPDATE (Modify Existing Record)

WRITE (Create New Records).

The file built-in functions are:

%EOF (Return End or Beginning of File Condition)

%EQUAL (Return Exact Match Condition)

%FOUND (Return Found Condition)

%OPEN (Return File Open Condition)

%STATUS (Return File or Program Status)

These operations are available in both the traditional syntax
and free-form syntax.

Most file operations can be used with both program described and externally
described files.

When an externally described file is used with certain file operations,
a record format name, rather than a file name, can be specified in factor
2. Thus, the processing operation code retrieves and/or positions the file
at a record format of the specified type according to the rules of the calculation
operation code used.

When the OVRDBF (override with data base file) command is used with the
MBR (*ALL) parameter specified, the SETLL, SETGT and CHAIN operations only
process the current open file member. For more information, refer to the see the IBM® i
Information Center database and file systems category.

The CHAIN, READ, READC, READE, READP, and READPE operations may have a result data structure. For these operations,
data is transferred directly between the file and the data structure, without
processing the input specifications for the file. Thus, no record identifying
or field indicators are set on as a result of an input operation to a data
structure. If all input operations to the file have a result data structure,
input specifications are not required.

The WRITE and UPDATE operations that specify a program described
file name in factor 2 must have a data structure name
specified in the result field. WRITE and UPDATE operations to an externally
described record may have a result data structure.
For these operations, data is transferred directly between data structure
and the file, without processing the output specifications for the file. If
all output operations to the file have a result data structure, output specifications
are not required.

A data structure name is allowed as the result of an I/O operation
to an externally described file name or record name as follows:

When a record name is specified on an I/O operation, the origin of the
data structure must match the record. That is, the data structure must be
defined using LIKEREC(rec) or EXTNAME(file:rec) where rec is the format name
specified on the operation.
*NULL cannot be specified on the LIKEREC or EXTNAME keyword.

For input operations, the result data structure
(or base structure for the LIKEDS data structure) must be defined using *INPUT
or *ALL.
If the data structure is defined with the LIKEREC keyword, it is not
necessary to explicitly specify the type.

For WRITE operations to a PRINTER, SEQ, SPECIAL, or WORKSTN file,
the result data structure must be defined using *OUTPUT or *ALL.

For WRITE to a DISK file, the file may be defined using *OUTPUT or *ALL.
If the layout of the output
buffer is identical to the layout of the input buffer, and
the data structure is defined with the LIKEREC keyword where
the type is not specified, the data structure may be used for a WRITE operation.

For UPDATE to a subfile record of a WORKSTN file, the result data structure
may be defined using *OUTPUT or *ALL.

For UPDATE to a DISK file, the result data structure may be defined using
*INPUT, *OUTPUT or *ALL.
If the data structure is defined with the LIKEREC keyword, it is not
necessary to explicitly specify the type.

A result data structure may be specified for an I/O operation to an externally
described file name, in addition to a record name, for opcodes CHAIN, READ,
READE, READP, and READPE. When the name of an externally described file is
specified, the data structure must contain one subfield data structure for
each record with input-capable fields, where the allowed subfield data structures
are defined as in rule 1. Each subfield data structure must start in position
1. (Normally the overlaying subfields will be defined using keyword POS(1)
or OVERLAY(ds:1).)
In the special case where the file contains only one record, the result data
structure may be defined as in rule 1.

The result data structure can also be defined using LIKEDS(ds), where
ds is a data structure following these rules.

In the following cases, when the data structure is not defined with
*ALL as the second parameter, data is transferred between the result data structure
and the input or output buffer as a whole, rather than individual
subfields being transferred separately.

when DATA(*NOCVT) is in effect for the file, and the data structure
is defined with CCSID(*EXACT)

when DATA(*CVT) is in effect for the file, and the data structure
is not defined with CCSID(*EXACT)

when the DATA keyword is not in effect for the file
and the CCSID keyword is not specfied for the data structure

Otherwise, alphanumeric and graphic subfields may require
CCSID conversion when the data is transferred between
the result data structure and the input or output buffer.

In all cases, data for subfields of types other than alphanumeric or
graphic is transferred directly between the input or output buffer and
the result data structure without regard for the data type.

See DATA(*CVT | *NOCVT) and
CCSID(*EXACT | *NOEXACT).

If an input operation (CHAIN, EXFMT, READ, READC, READE, READP, READPE)
does not retrieve a record because no record was found, because an error occurred
in the operation, or because the last record was already retrieved (end of
file), then no data is extracted and all fields in the program remain unchanged.

If you specify N as the operation extender of a CHAIN,
READ, READE, READP, or READPE operation for an update disk file, a record
is read without locking. If no operation extender is specified, the record
is locked if the file is an update disk file.

Exception/errors that occur during file operations can be handled by the
programmer (by coding an error indicator or specifying a file-error subroutine),
or by the RPG IV error handler.
Note: Input and output operations
in subprocedures involving input and output specifications always use the
global name, even if there is a local variable of the same name. For example,
if the field name TOTALS is defined in the main source section, as well as
in a subprocedure, any input or output operation in the subprocedure will
use the field as defined in the main source section.
See Database Null Value Support for information on handling files with null-capable fields.

You can pass a file as a parameter to a prototyped program or
procedure. When you pass a file as a parameter, then any settings for the
file that are defined using File specification keywords are in effect for
all procedures that access the file. For example, if the EXTFILE keyword is
specified with a variable parameter, and a called procedure opens the file,
then the value of the caller's variable will be used to set the name of the
file to be opened. If the called procedure needs to change or access those
variables associated with the file through keywords, the calling procedure
must pass the variables as a parameter.

The file-feedback built-in functions %EOF(filename), %EQUAL(filename),
%FOUND(filename), %OPEN(filename), and %STATUS(filename) can be used in the
called procedure program or to determine the current state of the file by
specifying the name of the file parameter as the operand to the built-in function.

For more information on file parameters, see LIKEFILE(filename) and General File Considerations.

Keys for File Operations

Parent topic: Operations