Bibliography

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > ILE COBOL Language Reference

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference

Bibliography
For additional information about topics related to ILE COBOL programming on the IBM® i system, refer to the
following IBM i publications: Communications Management, SC41-5406-02,
provides information about using the Application Development ToolSet
programming development manager (PDM) to work with lists of libraries,
objects, members, and user-defined options to easily do such operations
as copy, delete, and rename. Contains activities and reference material
to help the user learn PDM. The most commonly used operations and
function keys are explained in detail using examples.
ADTS for AS/400: Source Entry Utility, SC09-2605-00,
provides information about using the Application Development ToolSet
source entry utility (SEU) to create and edit source members. The
manual explains how to start and end an SEU session and how to use
the many features of this full-screen text editor. The manual contains
examples to help both new and experienced users accomplish various
editing tasks, from the simplest line commands to using pre-defined
prompts for high-level languages and data formats.
Application Display Programming, SC41-5715-02,
provides information about: Using DDS to create and maintain displays for applications;
Creating and working with display files on the system;
Creating online help information;
Using UIM to define panels and dialogs for an application;
Using panel groups, records, or documents

Recovering your system, SC41-5304-10,
provides information about setting up and managing the following: Journaling, access path protection, and commitment control
User auxiliary storage pools (ASPs)
Disk protection (device parity, mirrored, and checksum)

Provides performance information about backup media and save/restore
operations. Also includes advanced backup and recovery topics, such
as using save-while-active support, saving and restoring to a different
release, and programming tips and techniques.

CICS for
iSeries Application Programming Guide, SC41-5454-02,
provides information on application programming for CICS® for IBM i. It includes guidance
and reference information on the CICS® application
programming interface and system programming interface commands, and
gives general information about developing new applications and migrating
existing applications from other CICS platforms.
CL Programming, SC41-5721-06,
provides a wide-ranging discussion of IBM i programming topics
including a general discussion on objects and libraries, CL programming,
controlling flow and communicating between programs, working with
objects in CL programs, and creating CL programs. Other topics include
predefined and impromptu messages and message handling, defining and
creating user-defined commands and menus, application testing, including
debug mode, breakpoints, traces, and display functions.
Communications Management, SC41-5406-02,
provides information about work management in a communications environment,
communications status, tracing and diagnosing communications problems,
error handling and recovery, performance, and specific line speed
and subsystem storage information.
Experience RPG IV Tutorial, GK2T-9882-00,
is an interactive self-study program explaining the differences between
RPG III and RPG IV and how to work within the new ILE environment.
An accompanying workbook provides additional exercises and doubles
as a reference upon completion of the tutorial. ILE RPG code examples
are shipped with the tutorial and run directly on the system.
GDDM Programming Guide, SC41-0536-00,
provides information about using IBM i graphical data display
manager (GDDM) to write graphics application programs. Includes many
example programs and information to help users understand how the
product fits into data processing systems.
GDDM Reference, SC41-3718-00,
provides information about using IBM i graphical data display
manager (GDDM) to write graphics application programs. This manual
provides detailed descriptions of all graphics routines available
in GDDM. Also provides information about high-level language interfaces
to GDDM.
ICF Programming, SC41-5442-00,
provides information needed to write application programs that use IBM i communications and
the IBM i intersystem
communications function (IBM i-ICF).
Also contains information on data description specifications (DDS)
keywords, system-supplied formats, return codes, file transfer support,
and program examples.
IDDU Use, SC41-5704-00,
describes how to use the IBM i interactive
data definition utility (IDDU) to describe data dictionaries, files,
and records to the system. Includes: An introduction to computer file and data definition concepts
An introduction to the use of IDDU to describe the data used in
queries and documents
Representative tasks related to creating, maintaining, and using
data dictionaries, files, record formats, and fields
Advanced information about using IDDU to work with files created
on other systems and information about error recovery and problem
prevention.

IBM Rational® Development Studio
for i: ILE C/C++ Programmer's Guide, SC09-2712-07,
provides information on how to develop applications using the ILE
C language. It includes information about creating, running and debugging
programs. It also includes programming considerations for interlanguage
program and procedure calls, locales, handling exceptions, database,
externally described and device files. Some performance tips are
also described. An appendix includes information on migrating source
code from EPM C/400 or System C/400 to ILE C.
IBM Rational Development Studio
for i: ILE C/C++ Language Reference, SC09-7852-02,
describes the syntax, semantics, and IBM implementation
of the C and C++ programming languages.
IBM Rational Development Studio
for i: ILE COBOL Programmer's Guide, SC09-2540-07,
provides information about how to write, compile, bind, run, debug,
and maintain ILE COBOL programs
on the IBM i system.
It provides programming information on how to call other ILE COBOL and non-ILE COBOL programs, share
data with other programs, use pointers, and handle exceptions. It
also describes how to perform input/output operations on externally
attached devices, database files, display files, and ICF files.
ILE Concepts, SC41-5606-09,
explains concepts and terminology pertaining to the Integrated Language Environment® (ILE) architecture
of the IBM i licensed
program. Topics covered include creating modules, binding, running
programs, debugging programs, and handling exceptions.
IBM Rational Development Studio
for i: ILE RPG Programmer's Guide, SC09-2507-08, provides
information about the ILE RPG programming language, which is an implementation
of the RPG IV language in the Integrated Language Environment (ILE) on the IBM i system. It includes
information on creating and running programs, with considerations
for procedure calls and interlanguage programming. The guide also
covers debugging and exception handling and explains how to use IBM i files and devices
in RPG programs. Appendixes include information on migration to RPG
IV and sample compiler listings. It is intended for people with a
basic understanding of data processing concepts and of the RPG language.
IBM Rational Development Studio
for i: ILE RPG Reference, SC09-2508-08, provides information
about the ILE RPG programming language. This manual describes, position
by position and keyword by keyword, the valid entries for all RPG
IV specifications, and provides a detailed description of all the
operation codes and built-in functions. This manual also contains
information on the RPG logic cycle, arrays and tables, editing functions,
and indicators.
Local Device Configuration, SC41-5121-00,
provides information about configuring local devices on the IBM i system. This includes
information on how to configure the following: Local work station controllers (including twinaxial controllers)
Tape controllers
Locally attached devices (including twinaxial devices)

Printer Device Programming, SC41-5713-06,
provides information to help you understand and control printing.
Provides specific information on printing elements and concepts of
the IBM i system,
printer file and print spooling support for printing operations, and
printer connectivity. Includes considerations for using personal computers,
other printing functions such as Business Graphics Utility (BGU),
advanced function printing (AFP™), and examples of working with
the IBM i system
printing elements such as how to move spooled output files from one
output queue to a different output queue. Also includes an appendix
of control language (CL) commands used to manage printing workload.
Fonts available for use with the IBM i system are also provided.
Font substitution tables provide a cross-reference of substituted
fonts if attached printers do not support application-specified fonts.
ADTS for AS/400: Screen Design Aid, SC09-2604-00,
provides information about using the Application Development ToolSet
screen design aid (SDA) to design, create, and maintain displays,
menus, and online help information. The manual contains examples and
information to help learn how to use SDA on the IBM i system and in the
System/38 environment of the IBM i system.
Security reference, SC41-5302-11,
tells how system security support can be used to protect the system
and the data from being used by people who do not have the proper
authorization, protect the data from intentional or unintentional
damage or destruction, keep security information up-to-date, and set
up security on the system.
Installing, upgrading, or deleting IBM i and related software, SC41-5120-11,
provides step-by-step procedures for initial installation, installing
licensed programs, program temporary fixes (PTFs), and secondary languages
from IBM. This manual is also
for users who already have an IBM i system with an installed
release and want to install a new release.

For information about Systems Application Architecture® (SAA)
Common Programming Interface (CPI) COBOL, refer to the following publication: Systems
Application Architecture Common Programming Interface COBOL Reference,
SC26-4354.

Parent topic: ILE COBOL Language Reference