Definition Specifications

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Specifications

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications

Definition Specifications

Definition specifications can be used to define:

Standalone fields

Named constants

Enumerations

Data structures and their subfields

Prototypes

Procedure interface

Prototyped parameters

For more information on data structures, constants, prototypes, and procedure
interfaces, see also Defining Data and Prototypes For more information on data types
and data formats, see also Data Types and Data Formats.

For more information on enumerations, see
Enumerations.

Arrays and tables can be defined as either a data-structure subfield or
a standalone field. For additional information on defining and using arrays
and tables, see also Using Arrays and Tables.

Definition specifications can appear in two places within a
module or program: in the main source section and in a subprocedure. Within
the main source section, you define all global definitions. Within a subprocedure,
you define the procedure interface and its parameters as required by the prototype.
You also define any local data items that are needed by the prototyped procedure
when it is processed. Any definitions within a prototyped procedure are local. They are not
known to any other procedures (including the cycle-main procedure).
For more information on scope, see Scope of Definitions.

A built-in function (BIF)
can be used in the keyword field as a parameter to a keyword. It is allowed
on the definition specification only if the values of all arguments are known
at compile time. When specified as parameters for the definition specification
keywords DIM, OCCURS, OVERLAY, and PERRCD, all arguments for a BIF must be
defined earlier in the program. For further information on using built-in
functions, see Built-in Functions.

For more information on the layout and keywords used for the
following definition types, see:

Definition of Externally Described Data Structure

Definition of Program-Described Data Structure

Definition of Externally Described Data Structure Subfield

Definition of Program-Described Data Structure Subfield

Definition of Named Constant

Definition of Standalone Field

Definition of Prototype or Procedure Interface

Definition of Prototyped Parameter

Free-Form Definition Statement

Traditional Definition Specification Statement

Definition-Specification Keywords

Summary According to Definition Specification Type

Definition Specification Help

Definition Specifications

Definition of Externally Described Data Structure

Externally Described Data Structure Keywords

Definition of Program-Described Data Structure

Program-Described Data Structure Keywords

Definition of Externally Described Data Structure Subfield

Externally Described Data Structure Subfield Keywords

Definition of Program-Described Data Structure Subfield

Program-Described Data Structure Subfield Keywords

Definition of Named Constant

Named Constant Keyword

Definition of Enumeration

Enumeration Keyword

Definition of Standalone Field

Standalone Field Keywords

Definition of Prototype or Procedure Interface

Prototype and Procedure Interface Keywords

Definition of Prototyped Parameter

Prototyped Parameter Keywords

Definition-Specification Keywords

Parent topic: Specifications