Functions of using a library list

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Libraries > Library lists > Library lists

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Libraries > Library lists

Functions of using a library list
Using a library list simplifies finding objects on the system.
Each job has a library list associated with it. When a library
list is used to find an object, each library in the list is searched in the
order of its occurrence in the list until an object of the specified name
and type is found. If two or more objects of the same type and name exist
in the list, you get the object from the library that appears first in the
library list. The following figure shows the searches made for an object both
when the library list (*LIBL) is used and when a library name is specified:
Note: Alternatively,
use *NLVLIBL instead of *LIBL to qualify any command. Enter the command from
a CL program, on a command line, or anywhere you normally enter a command.
The system uses *NLVLIBL to determine which libraries to search for the *CMD
object. You search only the national language support libraries in the library
list by specifying *NLVLIBL.
The following figure shows what happens when
two objects of the same name but different types are in the library list.
The system will search for CUSTINQ *FILE in the library list by specifying:
DSPOBJD OBJ(*LIBL/CUSTINQ) OBJTYPE(*FILE)

Generally,
a library list is more flexible and easier to use than qualified names. More
important than the advantage of not entering the library name, is the advantage
of performing functions in an application on different data by using a different
library list without having to change the application. For example, a CL program
PGMA updates a data area CHKNBR. If the library name is not specified, the
program can update the data area named CHKNBR in different libraries depending
on the use of the library list. For example, assume that JOBA and JOBB both
call PGMA as shown in the following illustration.
However, the use of a qualified
name is advantageous in any of the following situations:
When the object you are using is not in the library list for the job
When there is more than one object of the same name in the library list
and you want one in a specific library
When you want to ensure that a specific library is used for security reasons.

If, however, you call a program using a qualified name and the program
attempts to open files whose names are not qualified, the files are not opened
if they are not in the library list, as shown in the following example.
The call to PGMA is
successful because the program name is qualified on the CALL command. However,
when the program attempts to open file ORDENTP, the open operation fails because
the file is not in one of the libraries in the library list, and its name
is not qualified. If library DISTLIB2 was added to the library list or a qualified
file name was used, the program could open the file. Some high-level languages
do not allow a qualified file name to be specified. By using an Override (OVRxxx)
command, a qualified name can be specified.

Parent topic: Library lists

Related information
Object signing and signature verification