HEX

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

HEX
The HEX function returns a hexadecimal representation of
a value.
HEX(expression)
expression
An expression that returns a value of any built-in data type other
than a character or binary string with a length attribute greater
than 16 336 or a graphic string with a length attribute greater than
8168.

The result of the function is a character string. If the
argument can be null, the result can be null; if the argument is null,
the result is the null value.
The result is a string of hexadecimal digits, the first
two digits represent the first byte of the argument, the next two
digits represent the second byte of the argument, and so forth. If
the argument is a datetime value, the result is the hexadecimal representation
of the internal form of the argument.1
If the argument is not a graphic string,
the actual length of the result is twice the length of the argument.
If the argument is a graphic string, the actual length of the result
is four times the length of the argument. If the data type of the
result is varying length, the length is limited to the maximum length
of the data type. The length of the argument is the value that would
be returned if the argument were passed to the LENGTH scalar function.
For more information, see LENGTH.
The data type and length attribute of the result depends
on the attributes of the argument:
If the argument is not a string, the result is CHAR with a length
attribute that is twice the length of the argument.
If the argument is a fixed-length character string with a length
attribute that is less than one half the maximum length attribute
of CHAR, the result is CHAR with a length attribute that is twice
the length attribute of the argument. If the argument is a fixed-length
graphic string with a length attribute that is less than one fourth
the maximum length attribute of CHAR, the result
is CHAR with a length attribute that is four
times the length attribute of the argument. For more information about
the product-specific maximum length, see Table 3.
Otherwise, the result is VARCHAR whose length attribute depends
on the following: If the argument is a character or binary string,
the length attribute of the result is the minimum of twice the length
attribute of the argument and the maximum length of the data type.
If the argument is a graphic string, the length
attribute of the result is the minimum of four times the length attribute
of the argument and the maximum length of the data type.

The length attribute of the result cannot be greater than
the product-specific length attribute of CHAR or VARCHAR. See Table 3 for more information.
The CCSID of the string is the default SBCS CCSID at the
current server.
ExampleUse the HEX function to return a hexadecimal representation of
the education level for each employee.   SELECT FIRSTNME, MIDINIT, LASTNAME, HEX(EDLEVEL)
    FROM EMPLOYEE

Parent topic: Scalar functions

1 This hexadecimal representation
for DATE, TIMESTAMP, and NUMERIC data types is different from other
database products because the internal form for these data types is
different.