Using data queues

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Communicating between programs and procedures > Communicating between programs and procedures

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Communicating between programs and procedures

Using data queues
Data queues are a type of system object that you can create, to
which one high-level language (HLL) procedure or program can send data, and
from which another HLL procedure or program can receive data.
The receiving program can be already waiting for the data, or
can receive the data later.
The advantages of using data queues are:

Using data queues frees a job from performing some work. If the job is
an interactive job, this can provide better response time and decrease the
size of the interactive program and its process access group (PAG). This,
in turn, can help overall system performance. For example, if several workstation
users enter a transaction that involves updating and adding to several files,
the system can perform better if the interactive jobs submit the request for
the transaction to a single batch processing job.
Data queues are the fastest means of asynchronous communication between
two jobs. Using a data queue to send and receive data requires less overhead
than using database files, message queues, or data areas to send and receive
data.
You can send to, receive from, clear, retrieve the contents
or description of a data queue and change some attributes of a data queue
in any HLL procedures or programs by calling APIs QSNDDTAQ, QRCVDTAQ, QCLRDTAQ,
QMHRDQM, QMHQRDQD, and QMHQCDQ without exiting the HLL procedure or program
or calling a CL procedure or program to perform the data queue operation.
When receiving data from a data queue, you can set a time out such that
the job waits until an entry arrives on the data queue. This differs from
using the EOFDLY parameter on the OVRDBF command, which causes the job to
be activated whenever the delay time ends.
More than one job can receive data from the same data queue. This has
an advantage in certain applications where the number of entries to be processed
is greater than one job can handle within the required performance restraints.
For example, if several printers are available to print orders, several interactive
jobs could send requests to a single data queue. A separate job for each
printer could receive from the data queue, either in first-in-first-out (FIFO),
last-in-first-out (LIFO), or in keyed-queue order.
Data queues have the ability to attach a sender ID to each message being
placed on the queue. The sender ID, an attribute of the data queue which is
established when the queue is created, contains the qualified job name and
current user profile.

In addition to these advantages, you can journal your data queues.
This allows you to recover the object to a consistent state, even if the object
was in the middle of some change action when the abnormal initial program
load (IPL) or crash occurred. Journaling also provides for replication of
the data queue journal to a remote system (using remote journal for instance).
This lets the system reproduce the actions in a similar environment to replicate
the application work.
The following example shows how data queues work.
Several jobs place entries on a data queue. The entries are handled by a server
job. This might be used to have jobs send processed orders to a single job
that would do the printing. Any number of jobs can send to the same queue.
Another example using data queues follows. A
primary job gets the work requests and sends the entries to a data queue (by
calling the QSNDDTAQ program). The server jobs receive the entries from the
data queue (by calling the QRCVDTAQ program) and process the data. The server
jobs can report status back to the primary job using another data queue.
Data
queues allow the primary job to route the work to the server jobs. This frees
the primary job to receive the next work request. Any number of server jobs
can receive from the same data queue.
When no entries are on a
data queue, server jobs have the following options:
Wait until an entry is placed on the queue
Wait for a specific period of time; if the entry still has not arrived,
then continue processing
Do not wait, return immediately.

Data queues can also be used when a program needs to wait for input
from display files, ICF files, and data queues at the same time. When you
specify the DTAQ parameter for the following commands:
Create Display File (CRTDSPF) command
Change Display File (CHGDSPF) command
Override Display File (OVRDSPF) command
Create ICF File (CRTICFF) command
Change ICF File (CHGICFF) command
Override ICF File (OVRICFF) command

you can indicate a data queue that will have entries placed on it
when any of the following happens:
An enabled command key or Enter key is pressed from an invited display
device
Data becomes available from an invited ICF session

Jobs running on the system can also place entries on the same data
queue as the one specified in the DTAQ parameter by using the QSNDDTAQ program.
An
application calls the QRCVDTAQ program to receive each entry placed on the
data queue and then processes the entry based on whether it was placed there
by a display file, an ICF file, or the QSNDDTAQ program.
Support is
available to optionally associate a data queue to an output queue by using
the Create Output Queue (CRTOUTQ) or Change Output
Queue (CHGOUTQ) command. The system logs entries in the data queue
when spooled files are in ready (RDY) status on the output queue. A user program
can determine when a spooled file is available on an output queue by using
the Receive Data Queue (QRCVDTAQ) API to receive information
from a data queue.

Remote data queues
Remote data queues are data queues that reside
on a remote system.
Comparisons with using database files as queues
Using data queues and using database files differ in many ways.
Similarities to message queues
Data queues are similar to message queues, in that procedures and
programs can send data to the queue that is received later by another procedure
or program.
Prerequisites for using data queues
Before using a data queue, you must first create it using the Create
Data Queue (CRTDTAQ) command.
Managing the storage used by a data queue
Because smaller data queues have better performance than large
ones, it is important to manage the size of the storage allocated to a data
queue.
Allocating data queues
If all users of a data queue allocate it before using it, this
helps to ensure that a data queue is not accessed by more than one job at
a time.
Examples: Using a data queue
These examples illustrate various methods for processing
data queues.
Creating data queues associated with an output queue
You can associate a data queue with an output queue
so that when a spooled file on the output queue goes to a ready (RDY) status,
an entry is sent to the data queue.
Creating data queues associated with jobs
You can associate a data queue with exit point QIBM_QWT_JOBNOTIFY
to place an entry on a data queue for certain job transitions.

Parent topic: Communicating between programs and procedures

Related concepts
Basic printing

Related reference
Example: Waiting for input from a display file and an ICF file
Example: Waiting for input from a display file and a data queue

Related information
CL command finder
Journal management
Change Output Queue (CHGOUTQ) command
Create Output Queue (CRTOUTQ) command