COVARIANCE

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Aggregate functions > Aggregate functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Aggregate functions

COVARIANCE
The COVARIANCE function returns the (population) covariance
of a set of number pairs.
COVARIANCE(expression1,expression2)
expression1
An expression that returns a value of any built-in numeric, character-string,
or graphic-string data type. If the argument is a character-string
or graphic-string, it is cast to DECFLOAT(34) before evaluating the
function.
expression2
An expression that returns a value of any built-in numeric, character-string,
or graphic-string data type. If the argument is a character-string
or graphic-string, it is cast to DECFLOAT(34) before evaluating the
function.

If either argument is decimal floating-point, the result
of the function is DECFLOAT(34). Otherwise, the result of the function
is a double precision floating-point number. The result can be null.
The function is applied to the set of (expression1, expression2)
pairs derived from the argument values by the elimination of all pairs
for which either expression1 or expression2 is null.
If the function is applied to an empty set, the result
is a null value. Otherwise, the result is the covariance for the value
pairs in the set. The result is equivalent to the following:
Let avgexp1 be the result of AVG(expression1) and let avgexp2
be the result of AVG(expression2).
The result of COVARIANCE(expression1, expression2)
is: AVG( (expression1 - avgexp1) * (expression2 - avgexp2) )

The order in which the values are aggregated is undefined,
but every intermediate result must be within the range of the result
data type.
NoteSyntax alternatives: COVAR or
COVAR_POP can be specified as a synonym for COVARIANCE.
ExampleUsing the EMPLOYEE table, set the host variable COVARNCE to the
covariance between the salary and the bonus for those employees in
department 'A00'. SELECT COVARIANCE(SALARY, BONUS)
INTO :COVARNCE
FROM EMPLOYEE
WHERE WORKDEPT = ‘A00’;
COVARNCE is
set to 1743000.0000 when using the sample table.

Parent topic: Aggregate functions