REGEXP_SUBSTR

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

REGEXP_SUBSTR
The REGEXP_SUBSTR function returns one occurrence of a
substring of a string that matches the regular expression pattern.
REGEXP_SUBSTR(source-string,pattern-expression,start,occurence,flags,group)
source-string
An expression that specifies the string in which the search is
to take place. The expression must return a value that is a built-in
character string, graphic string, numeric, or datetime data type.
If the value is not a UTF-16 DBCLOB, it is implicitly cast to a UTF-16
DBCLOB before searching for the regular expression pattern. A character
string with the FOR BIT DATA attribute or a binary string is not supported.
The length of a string must not be greater than 1 gigabyte.
pattern-expression
An expression that specifies the regular expression string that
is the pattern for the search. The expression must return a value
that is a built-in character string, graphic string, numeric, or datetime
data type. If the value is not a UTF-16 DBCLOB, it is implicitly cast
to a UTF-16 DBCLOB before searching for the regular expression pattern.
A character string with the FOR BIT DATA attribute or a binary string
is not supported. The length of the string must not be greater than
32K.A valid pattern-expression consists of a set of characters
and control characters that describe the pattern of the search. For
a description of the valid control characters, see Regular expression control characters.

start
An expression that specifies the position within source-string at
which the search is to start. The expression must return a value of
any built-in numeric, character-string, or graphic-string data type.
The argument is cast to INTEGER before evaluating the function. For
more information about converting to INTEGER, see INTEGER or INT. The value of the integer must
be greater than or equal to 1. If the value of the integer is greater
than the actual length of the source-string, the result is
the null value.

occurrence
An expression that specifies which occurrence of the pattern-expression within source-string to
search for. The expression must return a value of any built-in numeric,
character-string, or graphic-string data type. The argument is cast
to INTEGER before evaluating the function. For more information about
converting to INTEGER, see INTEGER or INT.
The value of the integer must be greater than or equal to 1. If occurrence is
not specified, the default value is 1 which indicates that only the
first occurrence of pattern-expression is considered.

flags
An expression that specifies flags that control aspects of the
pattern matching. The expression must return a value that is a built-in
character string or graphic string data type. A character string with
the FOR BIT DATA attribute or a binary string is not supported. The
string can include one or more valid flag values and the combination
of flag values must be valid. An empty string is the same as the value
'c'. For a description of the valid flag characters, see Regular expression flag values.

group
An expression that specifies which capture group of the pattern-expression within source-string to
return. The expression must return a value of any built-in numeric,
character-string, or graphic-string data type. The argument is cast
to INTEGER before evaluating the function. For more information about
converting to INTEGER, see INTEGER or INT.
The value of the integer must be greater than or equal to 0 and must
not be greater than the number of capture groups in the pattern-expression.
If group is not specified, the default is 0 which indicates
the entire string that matches the entire pattern is returned.

The result of the function is a string. The data type
of the result depends on the data type of source-string:
Data type of source-string
Data Type of the Result for REGEXP_SUBSTR

CHAR or VARCHAR or numeric or datetime
VARCHAR

CLOB
CLOB

GRAPHIC or VARGRAPHIC
VARGRAPHIC

DBCLOB
DBCLOB

The length attribute of the result data type is same as
the length attribute of the source-string. The actual length
of the result is the length of the occurrence in the string that matches
the pattern-expression. If the pattern-expression is
not found, the result is the null value.
The CCSID of the result
is the same as the source-string.
If any argument of
the REGEXP_SUBSTR function can be null, the result can be null. If
any argument is null, the result is the null value.
NotesPrerequisites: In
order to use the REGEXP_SUBSTR function, the International Components
for Unicode (ICU) option must be installed
Processing: The
regular expression processing is done using the International Components
for Unicode (ICU) regular expression interface. For more information
see, http://userguide.icu-project.org/strings/regexp.
Syntax
Alternatives: REGEXP_EXTRACT is a synonym for REGEXP_SUBSTR.
ExamplesExample 1: Return the string which matches any character
preceding a 'o'.SELECT REGEXP_SUBSTR('hello to you', '.o',1,1)
FROM sysibm.sysdummy1
The result is 'lo'.
Example 2: Return the second string occurrence which matches
any character preceding a 'o'.SELECT REGEXP_SUBSTR('hello to you', '.o',1,2)
FROM sysibm.sysdummy1
The result is 'to'.
Example 3: Return the third string occurrence which matches
any character preceding a 'o'.SELECT REGEXP_SUBSTR('hello to you', '.o',1,3)
FROM sysibm.sysdummy1
The result is 'yo'.

Parent topic: Scalar functions