RELEASE (connection)

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

RELEASE (connection)
The RELEASE statement places one or more connections in
the release-pending state.
InvocationThis statement can only be embedded
within an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that cannot be dynamically prepared. It must not be specified
in Java™ or REXX.
RELEASE is not allowed in a trigger or function.
Authorization If a global variable
is referenced in a statement, the privileges held by the authorization
ID of the statement must include at least one of the following:
For the global variable identified in the statement, The READ privilege on the global variable, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the global
variable

Database administrator authority

SyntaxRELEASEserver-namevariableCURRENTALLSQL
Descriptionserver-name or variable
Identifies a connection by
the specified server name or the server name contained in the variable. It can be a global variable if it is qualified with schema
name. If a variable is specified: It must be a character-string variable.
It must not be followed by an indicator variable.
The server name must be left-justified within the variable and
must conform to the rules for forming an ordinary identifier.
If the length of the server name is less than the length of the
variable, it must be padded on the right with blanks.

When the RELEASE statement is executed, the specified server
name or the server name contained in the variable must identify an
existing connection of the activation group.

CURRENT
Identifies
the current connection of the activation group. The activation group
must be in the connected state.
ALL or ALL SQL
Identifies
all existing connections of the activation group (local as well as
remote connections). An error or warning does not occur if no
connections exist when the statement is executed.
An application
server named ALL can only be identified by a variable or a delimited
identifier.

If the RELEASE statement is successful, each identified
connection is placed in the release-pending state and will therefore
be ended during the next commit operation. If the RELEASE statement
is unsuccessful, the connection state of the activation group and
the states of its connections are unchanged.
NotesRELEASE
and CONNECT (Type 1): Using CONNECT (Type 1) semantics does not
prevent using RELEASE.
Scope of RELEASE: RELEASE does not close cursors,
does not release any resources, and does not prevent further use of
the connection.
Resource considerations for remote connections: Resources
are required to create and maintain remote connections. Thus, a remote
connection that is not going to be reused should be in the release-pending
state and one that is going to be reused should not be in the release-pending
state.
Connection states: ROLLBACK does not reset the
state of a connection from release-pending to held.
If the current connection is in the release-pending state
when a commit operation is performed, the connection is ended and
the activation group is in the unconnected state. In this case, the
next executed SQL statement must be CONNECT or SET CONNECTION.
RELEASE ALL places the connection to the local release-pending
in the release-pending state. A connection in the release-pending
state is ended during a commit operation even though it has an open
cursor defined with the WITH HOLD clause.
ExamplesExample 1: The connection
to TOROLAB1 is not needed in the next unit of work. The following
statement will cause it to be ended during the next commit operation.
EXEC SQL RELEASE TOROLAB1;

Example 2: The current connection is not needed
in the next unit of work. The following statement will cause it to
be ended during the next commit operation.
EXEC SQL RELEASE CURRENT;

Example 3: None of the existing connections are
needed in the next unit of work. The following statement will cause
it to be ended during the next commit operation.
EXEC SQL RELEASE ALL;

Parent topic: Statements