CHCSLT (Choice Color/Display Attribute when Selected) keyword for display
files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

CHCSLT (Choice Color/Display Attribute when Selected) keyword for display
files

You use this field-level keyword to specify the
color or display attributes to be used when the system is displaying a selected
choice in a menu bar or selection field.

You can use this keyword to specify the color or display attributes
to be used for selected choices in a selection field, if the selection field
is in a pull-down menu that has PULLDOWN (*NOSLTIND). You can also use the
CHCSLT keyword on a subfile control record, when the subfile is used as a
single choice or multiple choice selection list. The selected list item is
displayed in the color indicated by the keyword on a color display, or displayed
with the attribute indicated by the keyword.
The format of the keyword
is: CHCSLT([color] [display-attributes])
One
parameter must be specified.
The color parameter indicates the color
of the choice text specified on the MNUBARCHC or CHOICE keywords for the field
on a color workstation. The parameter is specified as an expression of the
form (*COLOR value).
The valid values for the color parameter are:

Value

Meaning

BLU

Blue

GRN

Green

PNK

Pink

RED

Red

TRQ

Turquoise

YLW

Yellow

WHT

White

If the color parameter is not specified, the default color for
the selected choice in a menu bar is white. The default color for the selected
choices in a selection field in a pull-down menu that does not display selection
characters is white. The color parameter is ignored on a monochrome display.
The
display-attribute parameter indicates the display attributes of the choice
text specified on the MNUBARCHC or CHOICE keywords for the field. The parameter
is specified as an expression of the form (*DSPATR value1 <value2 <value3...>>).
The
valid values for the display attributes are:

Value

Meaning

BL

Blink

CS

Column separator

HI

High intensity

ND

Nondisplay

RI

Reverse image

UL

Underline

The default display attribute for the selected choice in a menu
bar is normal (or low) intensity. The default display attribute for the selected
choices in a selection field in a pull-down menu that does not display selection
characters is high intensity.
Note: Display attributes CS, HI, and BL can
cause fields on 5292, 3179, 3197 Models C1 and C2, 3477 Model FC, 3486, 3487
Models HC, and 3488 workstations to appear as color fields. Separator
lines do not appear when display attributes HI, RI, and UL are used.
When
this keyword is specified for a field, either the MNUBARCHC keyword or the
CHOICE keyword must also be specified on the field. If the CHOICE keyword
is specified on the field rather than MNUBARCHC, the record containing this
field must have the PULLDOWN keyword specified with the value *NOSLTIND. When
CHCSLT is specified for a subfile control record, either the SFLSNGCHC or
SFLMLTCHC keyword must also be specified on the subfile record.
Option
indicators are valid for this keyword.

Example The following example shows how to specify
the CHCSLT keyword:
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A
A R RECORD MNUBAR
A F1 2Y 0B 1 2
A MNUBARCHC(1 PULLFILE 'File ')
A MNUBARCHC(2 PULLEDIT 'Edit ')
A CHCSLT((*COLOR PNK) (*DSPATR RI))
AIn this example, when the choice is selected on a color
display, the menu bar is displayed in pink reverse image.

1 Dependent on the monitor attached
to the display device.