Binary string assignments

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Assignments and comparisons > String assignments > String assignments

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Assignments and comparisons > String assignments

Binary string assignments
The following rules apply when the assignment target is
a binary string.
Storage assignmentThe basic rule is that
the length of a string assigned to a column, parameter
of a function or procedure, or transition variable must not be
greater than the length attribute of the column or parameter. If the
string is longer than the length attribute of that column,
parameter, or transition variable, a error is returned. Trailing
hexadecimal zeroes (X'00') are normally included in the length of
the string. For storage assignments, however, trailing hexadecimal
zeroes are not included in the length of the string.
When a string is assigned to a fixed-length binary-string
column, parameter, or transition variable and
the length of the string is less than the length attribute of the
target, the string is padded on the right with the necessary number
of hexadecimal zeroes.
Retrieval assignmentThe
length of a string assigned to a variable (but not
a parameter or transition variable) can be greater than the length
attribute of the variable. When a string is assigned to a variable
and the string is longer than the length attribute of the variable,
the string is truncated on the right by the necessary number of bytes.
When this occurs, an SQLSTATE of '01004' is assigned to the RETURNED_SQLSTATE
condition area item in the SQL Diagnostics Area (or the value 'W'
is assigned to the SQLWARN1 field of the SQLCA).
When a string is assigned to a fixed-length binary-string
variable and the length of the string is less than the length attribute
of the target, the string is padded on the right with the necessary
number of hexadecimal zeroes.
When a string of length n is assigned to a varying-length
string variable with a maximum length greater than n, the bytes
after the nth byte of the variable are undefined.

Parent topic: String assignments