Variables in CL commands

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > CL programming

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming

Variables in CL commands
A variable is a named changeable value that can be
accessed or changed by referring to its name.
A CL source program consists of CL commands. Each command
consists of a command name, parameter keyword names, and parameter values.
Parameter values can be expressed as variables, constants, or expressions.
Variables can be used as substitutes for most parameter values on CL commands.
When a CL variable is specified as a parameter value and the command containing
it is run, the value of the variable is used as the parameter value. Every
time the command is run, a different value can be substituted for the variable.
Variables and expressions can be used as parameter values only in CL procedures
and programs.
Variables are not stored in libraries, and they are not
objects. Their values are destroyed when the program or procedure that contains
them is no longer active. The use of variables as values gives CL programming
a special flexibility, because this allows high-level manipulation of objects
whose content can be changed by specific applications. You might, for instance,
write a CL source program to direct the processing of other programs or the
operation of several workstations without specifying which programs or workstations
are to be controlled. The system identifies these as variables in the CL
program or procedure. You can define (specify) the value of the variables
when you run the CL program or procedure.
In addition to the uses discussed in this topic, variables can be used
to complete the following tasks:
Passing information between procedures and jobs.
Passing information between procedures and device displays.
Conditionally processing commands.
Creating objects. A variable can be used in place of an object name or
library name, or both. The following example shows the Create Physical
File (CRTPF) command used with a specified library in the first
line, and with a variable replacing the library name in the second line: CRTPF FILE(DSTPRODLB/&FILE)
CRTPF FILE(&LIB/&FILE)

Variables cannot be used to change a command name or keyword or to specify
a procedure name for the CALLPRC command. Command parameters, however, can
be changed during the processing of a CL procedure through the use of the
prompting function.
It is also possible to assemble the keywords and parameters for a command
and process it using the QCAPCMD API or QCMDEXC API.

Declaring variables to a CL program or procedure
All variables must be declared (defined)
to the CL program or procedure before they can be used by the program
or procedure.
Uses for based variables
Based variables can be used to map variables passed to the program
or manipulate arrays of values.
Uses for defined variables
Defined variables make it easy to manage complex data structures
in control language (CL) by eliminating the need to substring values
out of a large variable.
Variables to use for specifying a list or qualified name
Variables can be used to specify a list or qualified name.
Cases of characters in variables
There are restrictions on the cases used for characters in variables.
Variables that replace reserved or numeric parameter values
Character variables can be used for some commands to represent
a value on the command parameter.
Changing the value of a variable
You can change the value of a CL variable using the Change
Variable (CHGVAR) command.
Trailing blanks on command parameters
In certain command parameters, you can define
how trailing blanks are processed.
Writing comments in CL programs or procedures
To write comments or add comments to commands in
your CL programs or procedures, use the character pairs /* and */.
The comment is written between these symbols.

Parent topic: CL programming

Related tasks
Controlling flow and communicating between programs and procedures
Working with multiple device display files
Prompting for user input at run time
QCAPCMD program
QCMDEXC program
Data type errors using the CALL command

Related reference
Controlling processing within a CL program or CL procedure