MERGE

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

MERGE
The MERGE statement updates a target (a table or view)
using data from a source (result of a table reference). Rows in the
target that match the input data may be updated or deleted as specified,
and rows that do not exist in the target may be inserted as specified.
Updating, deleting, or inserting a row in a view updates, deletes,
or inserts the row into the tables on which the view is based if no
INSTEAD OF trigger is defined on the view.
InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared. It is not allowed in a
REXX procedure.
AuthorizationThe privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
Database administrator authority
If an insert operation is specified: The INSERT privilege on the table or view, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the table
or view

If a delete operation is specified: The DELETE privilege on the table or view, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the table
or view

If an update operation is specified: The UPDATE privilege on the table or view or
The UPDATE privilege on each column to be updated;
and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the table
or view

If search-condition, insert-operation, or assignment-clause includes
a fullselect, the privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement
must also include at least one of the following:
For each table or view identified in the fullselect:
The SELECT privilege on the table or view, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the table
or view

Database administrator authority

If table-reference contains any query that references
a column of a table or view, the privileges held by the authorization
ID of the statement must also include at least one of the following:
For each table or view identified in the fullselect:
The SELECT privilege on the table or view, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the table
or view

Database administrator authority

For information about the system authorities corresponding
to SQL privileges, see Corresponding
System Authorities When Checking Privileges to a Table or View.
SyntaxMERGE INTOtable-nameview-namecorrelation-clauseUSINGtable-referenceONsearch-conditionWHENmatching-conditionTHENupdate-operationdelete-operationinsert-operationsignal-statementELSE IGNOREATOMICNOT ATOMICSTOP ON SQLEXCEPTIONCONTINUE ON SQLEXCEPTIONisolation-clauseconcurrent-access-resolution-clausecorrelation-clauseAScorrelation-name(,column-name)matching-conditionNOTMATCHEDANDsearch-conditionupdate-operationUPDATEOVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUEOVERRIDING USER VALUESETassignment-clausedelete-operationDELETEinsert-operationINSERT(,column-name)OVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUEOVERRIDING USER VALUEVALUESexpressionDEFAULTNULL(,expressionDEFAULTNULL)assignment-clause,column-name=expressionDEFAULTNULL(, column-name)=(,expressionDEFAULTNULLrow-fullselect)ROW=(,expressionDEFAULTNULLrow-fullselect)isolation–clauseWITHNCURCSRSRR
Descriptiontable-name or view-name
Identifies the target of the
update, insert, and delete operations of the merge. The name must
identify a table or view that exists at the current server, but it
must not identify a catalog table, a view of a catalog table, a read-only view, or a non-deletable view independent
of any INSTEAD OF triggers defined for it.
AS correlation-name
Can be used within search-condition, matching-condition,
or on the right side of an assignment-clause to designate the
target table or view. The correlation-name is used to qualify
references to the columns of the table or view. When a correlation-name is
specified, column-names can also be specified to give names
to the columns of the table-name or view-name. If a
column list is specified, there must be a name in the column list
for each column in the table or view. For more information, see Correlation names
USING table-reference
Specifies a set of rows as a result table to be merged into the
target. If the result table is empty, a warning is returned.
ON search-condition
Specifies the predicates used to determine whether
a row from source-table matches rows in the target table.Each column-name in
the search-condition, other than in a subquery, must name a
column of the target table or view or the table-reference.
When the search condition includes a subquery in which the same table
is the base object of both the merge and the subquery, the subquery
is completely evaluated before any rows are updated or inserted.
The search-condition is
applied to each row of the target table and result table of the table-reference.
For those rows of the result table of the table-reference where
the result of the search-condition is true, the specified update
or delete operation is performed. For those rows of the result table
where the result of the search-condition is not true, the specified
insert operation is performed.
The search-condition cannot contain
a quantified subquery, IN predicate with a subselect, or EXISTS subquery.
It can contain basic predicate subqueries or scalar-fullselects. It
cannot contain expressions that use aggregate functions or non-deterministic
scalar functions.

WHEN matching-condition
Specifies the condition under which the update-operation, delete-operation, insert-operation,
or the signal-statement is executed. Each matching-condition is
evaluated in order of specification. Rows for which the matching-condition evaluates
to true are not considered in subsequent matching conditions.MATCHED
Indicates the operation to be performed on the rows where the
ON search-condition is true. Only UPDATE, DELETE, or signal-statement can
be specified after THEN.AND search-condition
Specifies a further search condition to be applied against the
rows that matched the ON search condition for the operation to be
performed after THEN.The search-condition must
not include a subquery in an EXISTS or IN predicate.

NOT MATCHED
Indicates the operation to be performed on the rows where the
ON search-condition is false or unknown. Only INSERT or signal-statement can
be specified after THEN.AND search-condition
Specifies a further search condition to be applied against the
rows that did not match the ON search condition for the operation
to be performed after THEN.The search-condition must
not include a subquery in an EXISTS or IN predicate.

THEN
Specifies the operation to execute when the matching-condition evaluates
to true.update-operation
Specifies the update operation to be executed for the rows where
the matching-condition evaluates to true.assignment-clause
Specifies a list of column updates.column-name
Identifies a column to be updated. The column-name must
identify a column of the target table or view. The column-name must
not identify a view column derived from a scalar function, constant,
or expression. A column name must not be specified more than once.A
view column derived from the same column as another column of the
view can be updated, but both columns cannot be updated in the same
MERGE statement.

ROW
Identifies all the columns of the target table or view except
for columns defined with the hidden attribute. If a view is specified,
none of the columns of the view may be derived from a scalar function,
constant, or expression.
The number of expressions, NULLs, and DEFAULTs (or the number
of result columns from a row-fullselect) must match the number
of columns in the row.
ROW may not be specified for a view that contains a view column
derived from the same column as another column of the view, because
both columns cannot be updated in the same UPDATE.
expression
Indicates the new value of the column. The expression must not
include an aggregate function except when it occurs
within a scalar fullselect.The expression can contain references
to columns of the target table-name or view-name. For
each row that is updated, the value of a target column reference in
an expression is the value of the column in the row before the row
is updated.
If expression is a reference
to a single column of the source table, the source table column value
may have been specified with an extended indicator variable value.
The effects of such indicator variables apply to the corresponding
target columns of the assignment-clause.
When
extended indicator variables are enabled, the extended indicator variable
values of DEFAULT (-5) or UNASSIGNED (-7) must not be used if expression
is more complex than the following references:A single column of the source table
A single host variable

DEFAULT
Specifies that the default value is assigned to
the column. DEFAULT can be specified only for columns that have a
default value. For more information about default values, see
the description of the DEFAULT clause in CREATE TABLE.DEFAULT
must be specified for a column that was defined as GENERATED ALWAYS
unless OVERRIDING USER VALUE is specified to indicate that any user-specified
value will be ignored and a unique system-generated value will be
used. A valid value can be specified for a column that was defined
as GENERATED BY DEFAULT.

NULL
Specifies the null value as the new value of the column. Specify
NULL only for nullable columns.

delete-operation
Specifies the delete operation to be executed for the rows where
the matching-condition evaluates to true.
insert-operation
Specifies the insert operation to be executed for the rows where
the matching-condition evaluates to true.INSERT
Introduces a list of column names and row value expressions to
be used for the insert operation.
The number of values in the row value expression
must equal the number of names in the implicit or explicit insert
column list. The first value is inserted in the first column in the
list, the second value in the second column, and so on.
(column-name,…)
Specifies
the columns for which insert values are provided. Each name must be
a name that identifies a column of the table or view. The same column
must not be identified more than once. If extended indicator variables
are not enabled, a view column that is not updatable must not be identified.
If extended indicator variables are not enabled and the object of
the insert operation is a view with such columns, a list of column
names must be specified and the list must not identify those columns.
For an explanation of updatable columns in views, see CREATE VIEW. Omission of the column list is
an implicit specification of a list in which every column of the table
or view is identified in left-to-right order. Any columns defined
with the hidden attribute are omitted. This list is established when
the statement is prepared and, therefore, does not include columns
that were added to a table after the statement was prepared.

VALUES
Specifies a new row to be inserted.Each
variable in the clause must identify a variable that is declared in
accordance with the rules for declaring variables. A host structure
cannot be used. For further information about variables, see References to host variables.
expression
An expression of
the type described in Expressions, that
does not include an aggregate function or column name. When
extended indicator variables are enabled, the extended indicator variable
values of DEFAULT (-5) or UNASSIGNED (-7) must not be used if expression
is more complex than the following references:A single column of the source table
A single host variable
A host variable being explicitly cast

DEFAULT
Specifies
that the default value is assigned to the column. DEFAULT can be specified
only for columns that have a default value. For more information
about default values, see the description of the DEFAULT clause in CREATE TABLE.DEFAULT must be specified
for a column that was defined as GENERATED ALWAYS unless OVERRIDING
USER VALUE is specified to indicate that any user-specified value
will be ignored and a unique system-generated value will be used.
A valid value can be specified for a column that was defined as GENERATED
BY DEFAULT.

NULL
Specifies
the value for a column is the null value. NULL should only be specified
for nullable columns.

OVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUE or OVERRIDING USER VALUE
Specifies whether system generated values or user-specified values
for a ROWID, identity, or row change timestamp column are used. If
OVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUE is specified, the implicit or explicit list
of columns for the INSERT or the SET clause of the UPDATE must contain
a ROWID, identity, or row change timestamp column
defined as GENERATED ALWAYS. If OVERRIDING USER VALUE is specified,
the implicit or explicit list of columns for the INSERT or the SET
clause of the UPDATE must contain a column defined as either GENERATED
ALWAYS or GENERATED BY DEFAULT. OVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUE
Specifies that the value specified in the VALUES or SET clause
for a column that is defined as GENERATED ALWAYS is used. A system-generated
value is not used.
If a value for a row-begin, row-end, transaction-start-ID,
or generated expression column is provided, it must be DEFAULT.
OVERRIDING USER VALUE
Specifies that the value specified in the VALUES or SET clause
for a column that is defined as either GENERATED ALWAYS or GENERATED
BY DEFAULT is ignored. Instead, a system-generated value is used,
overriding the user-specified value.

If neither OVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUE nor OVERRIDING
USER VALUE is specified:
A value cannot be specified for a ROWID, identity, row change
timestamp, row-begin, row-end, transaction-start-ID,
or generated expression column that is defined as GENERATED ALWAYS.
A value can be specified for a ROWID, identity, or row change
timestamp column that is defined as GENERATED BY DEFAULT. If a value
is specified, that value is assigned to the column. However, a value
can be assigned to a ROWID column defined BY DEFAULT only if the specified
value is a valid row ID value that was previously generated by DB2® for z/OS® or DB2 for
i. When a value is inserted
or updated for an identity or row change timestamp column defined
BY DEFAULT, the database manager does not verify that the specified
value is a unique value for the column unless the identity or row
change timestamp column is the sole key in a unique constraint or
unique index. Without a unique constraint or unique index, the database
manager can guarantee unique values only among the set of system-generated
values as long as NO CYCLE is in effect. If a value is not specified
the database manager generates a new value.

signal-statement
Specifies the SIGNAL statement that is to be executed to return
an error when the matching-condition evaluates to true. See SIGNAL.
ELSE IGNORE
Specifies that no action is to be taken when the matching-condition for
all WHEN clauses is false for a row in the USING table-reference.
No action is taken in this case whether or not ELSE IGNORE is specified.
ATOMIC or NOT ATOMIC
Specifies how to handle errorsATOMIC
Specifies that if an error occurs during a update-operation, delete-operation,
or insert-operation, the entire MERGE statement
is rolled back.
NOT ATOMIC
Specifies that if an error occurs during a update-operation, delete-operation,
or insert-operation, only that update-operation, delete-operation,
or insert-operation is rolled back.STOP ON SQL EXCEPTION
Specifies that if an error occurs during a update-operation, delete-operation,
or insert-operation, the processing of the MERGE
statement stops.
CONTINUE ON SQL EXCEPTION
Specifies that if an error occurs during a update-operation, delete-operation,
or insert-operation, the processing of the MERGE
statement continues.

isolation-clause
Specifies
the isolation level to be used for this statement. WITH
Introduces
the isolation level, which may be one of: RR Repeatable read
RS Read stability
CS Cursor stability
UR Uncommitted read
NC No commit

If isolation-clause is
not specified the default isolation is used. See isolation-clause for a description of how the default
is determined.
concurrent-access-resolution-clause
Specifies the concurrent access resolution
to use for the select statement. For more information, see concurrent-access-resolution-clause.

MERGE RulesMore than one update-operation, delete-operation, insert-operation, or signal-statement can
be specified in a single MERGE statement.
Each row in the target can only be operated on once. A row in
the target can only be identified as MATCHED with one row in the result
table of the table-reference. A nested SQL operation (RI or
trigger except INSTEAD OF trigger) cannot specify the target table
(or a table within the same hierarchy) as a target of an UPDATE, DELETE,
INSERT, or MERGE statement.

For other rules that affect the update, insert, or delete portion
of the MERGE statement, see the "Rules" section of the corresponding
statement description.
Extended indicator variable
usage: If enabled, indicator variable values other than positive
values and 0 (zero) through -7 must not be set. The DEFAULT and UNASSIGNED
extended indicator variable values must not appear in contexts where
they are not supported.
Extended indicator
variables: In an insert portion of the MERGE statement, the extended
indicator value of UNASSIGNED has the effect of setting the column
to its default value.
MERGE restriction: If
the target table of the MERGE statement has triggers or is the parent
in a referential integrity constraint, the update-operation or insert-operation must not contain a global variable,
a function, or a subselect.
NotesLogical order of processing: For
a NOT ATOMIC MERGE statement, each source row is processed independently
as if a separate MERGE statement were executed for each source row.
For example, a source row that causes an update of a target row, will
fire any triggers (including statement level triggers) when the update
of the row is performed. Thus, if 5 rows are updated, any update triggers
(including statement level update triggers) will be fired 5 times.
For an ATOMIC MERGE statement, the source rows are processed
as if a set of rows is processed by each WHEN clause. Thus, if 5 rows
are updated, any row level update triggers will be fired 5 times,
but n statement level update triggers will be fired, where n is
the number of WHEN clauses that contain an UPDATE, including any WHEN
clauses that contain an UPDATE that did not process any of the source
rows. For ATOMIC MERGE, the logical order of processing is: Determine the set of rows to be processed from the source and
target. If any of the special registers CURRENT DATE, CURRENT TIME,
or CURRENT TIMESTAMP are used in this statement, only one clock reading
is done for the whole statement.
Use the ON clause to classify these rows as either MATCHED or
NOT MATCHED.
Evaluate any matching-condition in the WHEN clauses.
Evaluate any expression in any assignment-clause and insert-operation.
Execute each signal-statement.
Apply each update-operation, delete-operation,
or insert-operation to the applicable rows in
the order of specification. The triggers activated by each update-operation, delete-operation, or insert-operation are executed. Statement level triggers
are activated even if no rows satisfy the update-operation, delete-operation,
or insert-operation. Each update-operation, delete-operation,
or insert-operation can affect the triggers of
each subsequent update-operation, delete-operation,
or insert-operation.

Number of rows updated: After executing a MERGE
statement, the ROW_COUNT statement information item in the SQL Diagnostics
Area (or SQLERRD(3) of the SQLCA) is the number of rows operated on
by the MERGE statement, excluding rows identified by the ELSE IGNORE
clause. The ROW_COUNT item and SQLERRD(3) does not include the number
of rows that were operated on as a result of triggers. The value in
the DB2_ROW_COUNT_SECONDARY statement information item (or SQLERRD(5)
of the SQLCA) includes the number of these rows.
For a description
of ROW_COUNT and DB2_ROW_COUNT_SECONDARY, see GET DIAGNOSTICS. For a description of the SQLCA,
see SQLCA (SQL communication area).
GET DIAGNOSTICS
considerations: If a MERGE statement completes with one or more
errors, the GET DIAGNOSTICS statement can be used after the MERGE
statement to check which input row(s) failed. The GET DIAGNOSTICS statement-information-item,
NUMBER, indicates the number of conditions (errors of warnings) detected
by execution of the MERGE statement. For each condition, the GET DIAGNOSTICS condition-information-item,
DB2_ROW_NUMBER, indicates the input source row that caused an error.
Inserted
row cannot also be updated: No attempt is made to update a row
in the target that did not already exist before the MERGE statement
was executed; that is, there are no updates of rows that were inserted
by the MERGE statement.
Concurrent row changes in MERGE target: MERGE
processing determines affected rows in the MERGE target before performing
any update-operations, delete-operations,
or insert-operations. Unless using a restrictive
isolation level such as repeatable read, concurrent processes could
insert or modify rows in the MERGE target between the time when the
set of affected target rows is determined and when a specific row update-operation, delete-operation, or insert-operation is processed. Such concurrent activity
could produce an error. For example, MERGE processing could determine
that a source row does not exist in the target where a column value
in the target has a unique key constraint. Before the MERGE attempts
to insert a new row based on the source data, a concurrent process
could insert a row with the same key value. This would cause a duplicate
key error when the MERGE processing attempts to insert its row.
Locking: If COMMIT(*RR), COMMIT(*ALL), COMMIT(*CS),
or COMMIT(*CHG) is specified, one or more exclusive locks are acquired
during the execution of a successful MERGE statement. Until the locks
are released by a commit or rollback operation, an inserted or updated
row can only be accessed by:
The application process that performed the insert or update
Another application process using COMMIT(*NONE) or COMMIT(*CHG)
through a read-only operation

The locks can prevent other application processes from
performing operations on the table. For further information about
locking, see the description of the COMMIT, ROLLBACK, and LOCK TABLE statements.
Also, see Isolation level and Database Programming.
A
maximum of 500 000 000 rows can be acquired in any single MERGE statement
when COMMIT(*RR), COMMIT(*ALL), COMMIT(*CS), or COMMIT(*CHG) was specified.
The number of row locks includes any rows inserted, updated, or deleted
in the MERGE target and any rows inserted, updated, or deleted under
the same commitment definition as a result of a trigger. The number
of row locks also includes source rows referenced by the USING table-reference is
COMMIT(*ALL) is specified.
Tables with active row and column access
controls: For information about how enabled row permissions and
column masks affect the update and insert operations in the MERGE
statement, see the INSERT and UPDATE statement information.
NOT ATOMIC processing: When NOT ATOMIC is specified,
the rows of source data are processed separately. Any reference to
special registers (such as CURRENT TIMESTAMP) in the MERGE statement
are evaluated as each row or source data is processed. Statement level
triggers are activated as each row of source data is processed.
If
an error occurs during the operation for a row of source data, the
row being processed at the time of the error is not inserted, updated,
or deleted. Processing of an individual row is an atomic operation.
Any other changes previously made during the processing of the MERGE
statement are not rolled back. If CONTINUE ON EXCEPTION is specified,
execution continues with the next row to be processed.
System-period
temporal tables: When a MERGE statement is processed for a system-period
temporal table, the rows are affected in the same way as if the specific
data change operation was invoked.
ExamplesExample 1: For activities
whose description has changed, update the description in the archive
table. For new activities, insert into the archive table. The archive
and activities tables both have activity as a primary key.MERGE INTO archive ar
USING (SELECT activity, description FROM activities) ac
ON (ar.activity = ac.activity)
WHEN MATCHED THEN
UPDATE SET description = ac.description
WHEN NOT MATCHED THEN
INSERT (activity, description) VALUES(ac.activity, ac.description)

Example
2: Using the shipment table, merge rows into the inventory table,
increasing the quantity by part count in the shipment table for rows
that match; else insert the new partno into the inventory table.MERGE INTO inventory AS in
USING (SELECT partno, description, count FROM shipment
WHERE shipment.partno IS NOT NULL) AS sh
ON (in.partno = sh.partno)
WHEN MATCHED THEN
UPDATE SET description = sh.description,
quantity = in.quantity + sh.count
WHEN NOT MATCHED THEN
INSERT (partno, description, quantity)
VALUES (sh.partno, sh.description, sh.count)

Example
3: Using the transaction table, merge rows into the account table,
updating the balance from the set of transactions against an account
ID and inserting new accounts from the consolidated transactions where
they do not already exist.MERGE INTO account AS a
USING (SELECT id, SUM(amount) sum_amount FROM transaction
GROUP BY id) AS t
ON a.id = t.id
WHEN MATCHED THEN
UPDATE SET balance = a.balance + t.sum_amount
WHEN NOT MATCHED THEN
INSERT (id, balance) VALUES (t.id, t.sum_amount)

Example
4: Using the transaction_log table, merge rows into the employee_file
table, updating the phone and office columns with the latest transaction_log
row based on the transaction time, and inserting a new employee_file
row where the row does not already exist.MERGE INTO employee_file AS e
USING (SELECT empid, phone, office
FROM (SELECT empid, phone, office,
ROW_NUMBER() OVER (PARTITION BY empid
ORDER BY transaction_time DESC) rn
FROM transaction_log) AS nt
WHERE rn = 1) AS t
ON e.empid = t.empid
WHEN MATCHED THEN
UPDATE SET (phone, office) = (t.phone, t.office)
WHEN NOT MATCHED THEN
INSERT (empid, phone, office)
VALUES(t.empid, t.phone, t.office)

Example
5: Using dynamically supplied values for an employee row, update
the master employee table if the data corresponds to an existing employee,
or insert the row if the data is for a new employee. The following
example is a fragment of code from a C program.hv1 =
"MERGE INTO employee AS t
USING (VALUES(CAST(? AS CHAR(6)), CAST(? AS VARCHAR(12)),
CAST(? AS CHAR(1)), CAST(? AS VARCHAR(15)),
CAST(? AS SMALLINT), CAST(? AS INTEGER)))
s (empno, firstnme, midinit, lastname, edlevel, salary)
ON t.empno = s.empno
WHEN MATCHED THEN
UPDATE SET salary = s.salary
WHEN NOT MATCHED THEN
INSERT (empno, firstnme, midinit, lastname, edlevel, salary)
VALUES (s.empno, s.firstnme, s.midinit, s.lastname, s.edlevel,
s.salary)";
EXEC SQL PREPARE s1 FROM :hv1;
EXEC SQL EXECUTE s1 USING :hv2, :hv3, :hv4, :hv5, :hv6, :hv7;

Example
6: Update the list of activities organized by Group A in the archive
table. Delete all outdated activities and update the activities information
(description and date) in the archive table if they have been changed.
For new upcoming activities, insert into the archive. Signal an error
if the data of the activity is not known. The date of the activities
in the archive table must be specified. Each group has an activities
table. For example, activities_groupA contains all activities that
they organize, and the archive table contains all upcoming activities
organized by different groups in a company. The archive table has
(group, activity) as the primary key, and data is not nullable. All
activities tables have activity as the primary key. The last_modified
column in the archive is defined with CURRENT TIMESTAMP as the default
value.MERGE INTO archive ar
USING (SELECT activity, description, date, last_modified
FROM activities_groupA) ac
ON (ar.activity = ac.activity) AND ar.group = 'A'
WHEN MATCHED AND ac.date IS NULL THEN
SIGNAL SQLSTATE '70001'
SET MESSAGE_TEXT = 'Activity cannot be modified. Reason: date is not known'
WHEN MATCHED and ac.date < CURRENT DATE THEN
DELETE
WHEN MATCHED AND as.last_modified < ac.last_modified THEN
UPDATE SET (description, date, last_modified)
= (ac.description, ac.date, DEFAULT)
WHEN NOT MATCHED AND ac.date IS NULL THEN
SIGNAL SQLSTATE '70002'
SET MESSAGE_TEXT = 'Activity cannot be inserted. Reason: date is not known'

WHEN NOT MATCHED AND ac.date >= CURRENT DATE THEN
INSERT (group, activity, description, date)
VALUES ('A', ac.activity, ac.description, ac.date)
ELSE IGNORE

Parent topic: Statements