Additional considerations for describing database files that contain
DBCS data

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > DBCS considerations for database files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > DBCS considerations for database files

Additional considerations for describing database files that contain
DBCS data

Be aware of these considerations when describing
a database file that contains double-byte character set (DBCS) fields.

If you describe DBCS fields in the DDS, the system treats the file as
a DBCS file. You do not need to specify IGCDTA(*YES) on the file creation
command to identify the file as DBCS.

The data type of a field in a physical file can be changed as follows
when you refer to that field in a logical file:

Physical file data type

Logical file data type

J

J, O, E, H, G

O

O, H

E

O, E, H

A

A, O, E, H

H

J, O, E, A, H

G

G, O, J, E

Note: When the physical file data type is character (A) or hexadecimal
(H), and the logical file data type is DBCS-only (J) or DBCS-either (E), the
physical file field length (columns 30 through 34) must be an even number
greater than or equal to 4.

DDS treats DBCS key fields as character fields (the data type specified
in position 35 is O).

DDS uses the EBCDIC collating sequence to sort DBCS data.

Any key field sequencing keywords that can be used with character fields
can be used with DBCS fields, except the following keywords: ALTSEQ
DIGIT
ZONE

Use bracketed-DBCS data anywhere comments and character strings
are allowed.

Any bracketed-DBCS field except a field with data type J can be compared
with a character field (data type A).

A DBCS-graphic field can be compared only with another graphic field.

The following validity checking keywords can be specified on DBCS fields:
COMP
RANGE
VALUES

When specifying the VARLEN keyword in a physical file, the minimum allowed
length for the allocated length is 4 for a bracketed-DBCS field. The minimum
allowed length for the allocated length is 1 for a DBCS-graphic field.