Unicode considerations for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files

Unicode considerations for display files

Unicode is a universal encoding scheme for written characters and
text that enables the exchange of data internationally. Two transformation
formats, UTF_16 and UCS_2, of Unicode are supported with DDS.

A Unicode field in a display file can contain UCS-2 or UTF-16 data. Unicode
data is composed of code units, which represent the minimal byte combination
that can represent a unit of text.

There are two transformation formats (encoding forms) of Unicode that are
supported with DDS:

UTF-16 is a 16-bit encoding form designed to provide code values
for over a million characters and a superset of Unicode. UTF-16 data is stored
in graphic data types. The CCSID value for data in UTF-16 format is 1200. A
UTF-16 code unit is 2 bytes in length. A UTF-16 character can be 1 or 2 code
units (2 or 4 bytes) in length. A UTF-16 data string can contain any character
including UTF-16 surrogates and combining characters.

UCS-2 is the Universal Character Set coded in 2 octets, which means
that characters are represented in 16 bits per character. One code unit is
used in this topic to describe the size of a UCS-2 character. UCS-2 data is
stored in graphic data types. The CCSID value for data in UCS-2 format is
13488. UCS-2 is a subset of UTF-16 and can no longer support all of the
characters defined by Unicode. UCS-2 is identical to UTF-16 except that UTF-16
also supports the combining of characters and surrogates. If you do not need
support for the combining of characters and surrogates, you can choose to
continue to use the UCS-2 format.

Unicode data is not supported on display devices that currently support
the 5250 data stream. Therefore, conversions between the Unicode data and
EBCDIC are necessary during input and output. On output, the Unicode data
is converted to the CCSID of the device. On input, the data is converted from
the device CCSID to the Unicode CCSID.

Because the device CCSID, which is determined from the device
configuration, determines what the Unicode data is converted to, the converted
data can appear differently on different devices. For example, a Unicode code
unit that maps to an SBCS character is displayed as a DBCS replacement character
on a graphic-DBCS-capable device. On a DBCS-capable or an SBCS-capable device,
the code unit appears as an SBCS character. A Unicode code unit that maps
to a DBCS character is displayed as a graphic-DBCS character on a graphic-DBCS-capable
device. On a DBCS device, a DBCS character is displayed and bracketed (enclosed
in shift-out and shift-in characters). An SBCS replacement character is displayed
on an SBCS device.

It is also suggested that all fields that are capable of
Unicode are initialized in the output buffer before writing the fields to
the screen. Unpredictable results might occur if default initialization is
allowed to take place.