Detailed RPG IV Object Program Cycle

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > Procedures and the Program Logic Cycle > RPG Cycle and other implicit Logic > Program Cycle > Detailed RPG IV Program Cycle > Detailed RPG IV Program Cycle

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > Procedures and the Program Logic Cycle > RPG Cycle and other implicit Logic > Program Cycle > Detailed RPG IV Program Cycle

Detailed RPG IV Object Program Cycle

Figure 1 shows the specific steps in the detailed
flow of the RPG IV program cycle. The item numbers in the following
description refer to the numbers in the figure. Routines are flowcharted
in Figure 2 and in Figure 1.

1

The RT indicator is set off. If *ENTRY PLIST is specified the
parameters are resolved.

2

RPG IV checks for the first invocation of the program. If
it is the first invocation, program initialization continues. If
not, it moves the result field to factor 1 in the PARM statements
in *ENTRY PLIST and branches to step 5.

3

The program is initialized at *INIT in the cycle. This process
includes: performing data structure and subfield initialization,
setting user date fields; opening global files; loading all data area
data structures, arrays and tables; moving the result field to factor
1 in the PARM statements in *ENTRY PLIST; running the initialization
subroutine *INZSR; and storing the structures and variables for the
RESET operation. Global files are opened in reverse order of their
specification on the File Description Specifications.

4

Heading and detail lines (identified by an H or D in position
17 of the output specifications) are written before the first record
is read. Heading and detail lines are always processed at the same
time. If conditioning indicators are specified, the proper indicator
setting must be satisfied. If fetch overflow logic is specified and
the overflow indicator is on, the appropriate overflow lines are written.
File translation, if specified, is done for heading and detail lines
and overflow output. This step is the return point in the program
if factor 2 of an ENDSR operation contains the value *DETL.

5

The halt indicators (H1 through H9) are tested. If all the halt
indicators are off, the program branches to step 8. Halt indicators
can be set on anytime during the program. This step is the return
point in the program if factor 2 of an ENDSR operation contains the
value *GETIN.

a.

If any halt indicators are on, a message is issued to the user.

b.

If the response is to continue, the halt indicator is set off,
and the program returns to step 5. If the response is to cancel,
the program goes to step 6.

6

If the response is to cancel with a dump, the program goes to
step 7; otherwise, the program branches to step 36.

7

The program issues a dump and branches to step 36 (abnormal
ending).

8

All record identifying, 1P (first page), and control level (L1
through L9) indicators are set off. All overflow indicators (OA through
OG, OV) are set off unless they have been set on during preceding
detail calculations or detail output. Any other indicators that are
on remain on.

9

If the LR (last record) indicator is on, the program continues
with step 10. If it is not on, the program branches to step 11.

10

The appropriate control level (L1 through L9) indicators are
set on and the program branches to step 29.

11

If the RT indicator is on, the program continues with step 12;
otherwise, the program branches to step 14.

12

Factor 2 is moved to the result field for the parameters of
the *ENTRY PLIST.

13

If the RT indicator is on (return code set to 0), the program
returns to the caller.

14

If a primary file is present in the program, the program continues
with step 15; otherwise, the program branches to step 29.

15

During the first program cycle, the first record from the primary
file and from each secondary file in the program is read. File translation
is done on the input records. In other program cycles, a record is
read from the last file processed. If this file is processed by a
record address file, the data in the record address file defines the
record to be retrieved. If lookahead fields are specified in the
last record processed, the record may already be in storage; therefore,
no read may be done at this time.

16

If end of file has occurred on the file just read, the program
branches to step 20. Otherwise, the program continues with step 17.

17

If a record has been read from the file, the record type and
record sequence (positions 17 through 20 of the input specifications)
are determined.

18

It is determined whether the record type is defined in the program,
and if the record sequence is correct. If the record type is undefined
or the record sequence is incorrect, the program continues with step
19; otherwise, the program branches to step 20.

19

The RPG IV exception/error handling routine receives control.

20

It is determined whether a FORCE operation was processed on
the previous cycle. If a FORCE operation was processed, the program
selects that file for processing (step 21) and branches around the
processing for match fields (steps 22 and 23). The branch is processed
because all records processed with a FORCE operation are processed
with the matching record (MR) indicator off.

21

If FORCE was issued on the previous cycle, the program selects
the forced file for processing after saving any match fields from
the file just read. If the file forced is at end of file, normal
primary/secondary multifile logic selects the next record for processing
and the program branches to step 24.

22

If match fields are specified, the program continues with step
23; otherwise, the program branches to step 24.

23

The match fields routine receives control. (For detailed information
on the match fields routine, see Match Fields Routine.)

24

The LR (last record) indicator is set on when all records are
processed from the files that have an E specified in position 19 of
the file description specifications and all matching secondary records
have been processed. If the LR indicator is not set on, processing
continues with step 26.

25

The LR (last record) indicator is set on and all control level
(L1 through L9) indicators, and processing continues with step 29.

26

The record identifying indicator is set on for the record selected
for processing.

27

It is determined whether the record selected for processing
caused a control break. A control break occurs when the value in
the control fields of the record being processed differs from the
value of the control fields of the last record processed. If a control
break has not occurred, the program branches to step 29.

28

When a control break occurs, the appropriate control level indicator
(L1 through L9) is set on. All lower level control indicators are
set on. The program saves the contents of the control fields for the
next comparison.

29

It is determined whether the total-time calculations and total-time
output should be done. Totals are always processed when the LR indicator
is on. If no control level is specified on the input specifications,
totals are bypassed on the first cycle and after the first cycle,
totals are processed on every cycle. If control levels are specified
on the input specifications, totals are bypassed until after the first
record containing control fields has been processed.

30

All total calculations conditioned by a control level entry
(positions 7 and 8 of the calculation specifications). are processed.
This step is the return point in the program if factor 2 of an ENDSR
operation contains the value *TOTC.

31

All total output is processed. If fetch overflow logic is specified
and the overflow indicator (OA through OG, OV) associated with the
file is on, the overflow lines are written. File translation, if
specified, is done for all total output and overflow lines. This
step is the return point in the program if factor 2 of an ENDSR operation
contains the value *TOTL.

32

If LR is on, the program continues with step 33; otherwise,
the program branches to step 41.

33

The halt indicators (H1 through H9) are tested. If any halt
indicators are on, the program branches to step 36 (abnormal ending).
If the halt indicators are off, the program continues with step 34.
If the RETURN operation code is used in calculations, the program
branches to step 33 after processing of that operation.

34

If LR is on, the program continues with step 35. If it is not
on, the program branches to step 38.

35

RPG IV program writes all arrays or tables for which the TOFILE
keyword has been specified on the definition specification and writes
all locked data area data structures. Output arrays and tables are
translated, if necessary.

36

All open global files are closed. The RPG IV program also
unlocks all data areas that have been locked but not unlocked by the
program. If factor 2 of an ENDSR operation contains the value *CANCL,
this step is the return point.

37

The halt indicators (H1 through H9) are tested. If any halt
indicators are on, the program branches to step 39 (abnormal ending).
If the halt indicators are off, the program continues with step 38.

38

The factor 2 fields are moved to the result fields on the PARMs
of the *ENTRY PLIST.

39

The return code is set. 1 = LR on, 2 = error, 3 = halt.

40

Control is returned to the caller.

Note: Steps 32 through 40 constitute the normal ending
routine. For an abnormal ending, steps 34 through 35 are bypassed.

41

It is determined whether any overflow indicators (OA through
OG OV) are on. If an overflow indicator is on, the program continues
with step 42; otherwise, the program branches to step 43.

42

The overflow routine receives control. (For detailed information
on the overflow routine, see Overflow Routine.) This step is
the return point in the program if factor 2 of an ENDSR operation
contains the value *OFL.

43

The MR indicator is set on and remains on for the complete cycle
that processes the matching record if this is a multifile program
and if the record to be processed is a matching record. Otherwise,
the MR indicator is set off.

44

Data from the last record read is made available for processing.
Field indicators are set on, if specified.

45

If lookahead fields are specified, the program continues with
step 46; otherwise, the program branches to step 47.

46

The lookahead routine receives control. (For detailed information
on the lookahead routine, see Lookahead Routine.)

47

Detail calculations are processed. This step is the return
point in the program if factor 2 of an ENDSR operation contains the
value *DETC. The program branches to step 4.

Parent topic: Detailed RPG IV Program Cycle