Source of Input Data

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > ACCEPT Statement > Format 1 - Data Transfer > Format 1 - Data Transfer

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > ACCEPT Statement > Format 1 - Data Transfer

Source of Input Data
The source of input data is dependent upon the type of program initiation
as follows:
Method of Program Initiation
Data Source
(Input Device)

When Associated
with Environment-Name
When FROM Phrase Omitted

CONSOLE or SYSTEM-CONSOLE
SYSIN or REQUESTOR

BATCH
System operator’s message queue
Job input stream
Job input stream

INTERACTIVE
System operator’s message queue
Workstation
Workstation

The job input stream consists of data that accompanies a CL command. If
there is no data in the input stream, or if there is insuffient data to fill
identifier-1, an exception occurs.
When the input is from the job input stream, the following rules
apply:
An input record size of 80 characters is assumed.
If identifier-1 is up to 80 characters in length, the input data must
appear as the first characters within the input record. Any characters beyond
the length of identifier-1 are truncated.
If identifier-1 is longer than 80 characters, succeeding input records
are read until the storage area of identifier-1 is filled. If the length
of identifier-1 is not an exact multiple of 80 characters, the last input
record is truncated.

When the device is the workstation, the input record size is 100.
When the device is the system operator's message queue, the input
record size is 58. The following steps occur:
A system-generated inquiry message containing the program-name, the text “AWAITING
REPLY FOR POSITION(S)”, and the beginning and ending positions is automatically
sent to the system operator's message queue or workstation operator. Previous
DISPLAYs can also appear on the ACCEPT screen.
Processing is suspended.
The reply is moved into identifier-1, and processing is resumed after
a reply is made by the operator to the inquiry in step 1. The reply value
is made available to the program as it was typed, in uppercase or lowercase.
If identifier-1 is longer than the input record size, succeeding input
records are read (steps 1-3) until identifier-1 is filled.

If the incoming reply is longer than identifier-1, the character positions
beyond the length of identifier-1 are truncated.
Note: If the device
is the same as that used for READ statements, results are unpredictable.

Parent topic: Format 1 - Data Transfer