DOCIDXTAG (Document Index Tag) keyword in printer files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

DOCIDXTAG (Document Index Tag) keyword in printer files

You use this record-level keyword to create
an indexing tag in the document for use by presentation systems such as Advanced Function Printing (AFP), or for use by postprocessor applications
such as Content Manager OnDemand.

The format of the keyword is:
DOCIDXTAG(attribute-name | &attribute-name-field
attribute-value | &attribute-value-field
tag-level | &attribute-tag-level-field) The
attribute-name parameter is required and defines the name of the indexing
attribute (for example, "Policy Number"). The maximum number of characters
in the attribute name is 250. Blanks are allowed as part of the attribute
name.
When you specify the attribute-name parameter as a program-to-system
field, the field must exist in the same record format as the DOCIDXTAG keyword.
It must be defined as length of 1-250, type A (character) and usage P (program-to-system).
The
attribute-value parameter is required and defines the value of the indexing
attribute (for example, "43127").The maximum number of characters in the attribute
value is 250. Blanks are allowed as part of the attribute-value.
When
you specify the attribute-value parameter as a program-to-system field, the
field must exist in the same record format as the DOCIDXTAG keyword. It must
be defined as length of 1-250, type A (character) and usage P (program-to-system).
The
tag-level parameter is required and defines the level of the indexing tag.
There are two special values allowed for this parameter. GROUP and PAGE. GROUP
specifies that the attribute name and value are attached to the current group.
Notes:
Group level tags are selectable using the SELECT GROUP function of the AFP Viewer.
PAGE specifies that the attribute name and value are attached to the current
page

Page level tags are selectable using the GO TO function of the AFP Viewer. Group
level tags are selectable using the SELECT GROUP function of the AFP Viewer. PAGE
specifies that the attribute name and value are attached to the current page.

.
When you specify the tag-level parameter as a program-to-system
field, the field must exist in the same record format as the DOCIDXTAG keyword.
It must be defined as length of 5, type A (character) and usage P (program-to-system).
This
keyword is valid with DEVTYPE(*AFPDS). If DEVTYPE is changed to anything other
than *AFPDS, the keyword will be ignored and a warning message will be issued
at print time.
Option indicators are valid for this keyword.

Example|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....
A
A R RECORD1
A 02 DOCIDXTAG('Policy Number' '43127' +
A GROUP)
A R RECORD2 DOCIDXTAG( &ATTNAM &ATTVAL PAGE)
A ATTNAM 20A P
A ATTVAL 10A P
A
In the example, RECORD1 specifies an indexing attribute name
of 'Policy Number' and an attribute value of '43127'. This is a group level
tag. RECORD2 allows the application program to specify the attribute-name
and attribute-value by specifying variables ATTNAM and ATTVAL. This is a page
level tag.