XML-INTO (Parse an XML Document into a Variable)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes > Operation Codes

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes

XML-INTO (Parse an XML Document into a Variable)

Free-Form
Syntax

XML-INTO{(EH)} receiver %XML(xmlDoc {: options });

XML-INTO{(EH)} %HANDLER(handlerProc : commArea)
%XML(xmlDoc {: options });

Code

Factor 1

Extended Factor 2

XML-INTO

 

receiver %XML(xmlDoc {: options })

XML-INTO

 

%HANDLER(handlerProc : commArea)
%XML(xmlDoc {: options })

Tip: If you are not familiar with the basic
concepts of XML and of processing XML documents, you may find it helpful
to read the "Processing XML Documents" section in Rational® Development Studio for i: ILE RPG Programmer's Guide before
reading further in this section.

XML-INTO can operate in two different ways:

Reading XML data directly into an RPG variable

Reading XML data gradually into an array parameter that it passes
to the procedure specified by %HANDLER(handlerProc).

The first operand specifies the target of the parsed data. It can
contain a variable name or the %HANDLER built-in function.

The second operand must be the %XML built-in function, identifying
the XML document to be parsed and the options controlling the way
the parsing is done. See %XML (xmlDocument {:options}) for more information
on %XML.

If the first operand is a variable name:

Parsing will be done directly into the variable.

The name of the variable will be used to establish the name of
the XML element to parse; this can be overridden using the path option.

If the variable is a data structure, some subfields may be set
by the operation even if the operation ends in error.

If the variable is an array, the parsing will only search for
as much data as will fit in the array. The "Number of XML Elements"
subfield in positions 372 - 379 of the PSDS will be set to the number
of elements successfully set by the operation. For an array of data
structures, this value will not include the element being set if a
parsing error occurs while parsing the data for the subfields of the
element; however, this array element may have some of its subfields
set by the operation.

If the first operand is the %HANDLER built-in function:

The procedure specified as the first operand of %HANDLER will
be called when the parser has parsed enough XML data to fill the specified
number of RPG array elements handled by the procedure. When the handler
returns, the parser will continue to parse the XML data until it has
parsed enough XML data to again fill the specified number of array
elements to call the handling procedure. This continues until the
document is completely parsed, or until the procedure returns a return
code indicating that the parsing should halt.
The final call to
the handling procedure may have fewer RPG array elements than the
handling procedure can handle. The handling procedure should always
refer to the "number of elements" parameter to ensure it does not
access array elements that do not have any XML data.

The communication-area
variable specified as the second operand of %HANDLER will be passed
by the parser as the first parameter to the handling procedure, allowing
the procedure coding the XML-INTO operation to communicate with the
handling procedure, and allowing the handling procedure to save information
from one call to the next.

Each element of the temporary variable used to hold the array
parameter for the procedure will be cleared to its default value before
it is loaded from the XML data.

The path option must be used to specify the name of the
XML element to search for. See %DATA and %XML options for DATA-GEN, DATA-INTO, and XML-INTO and Expected format of XML data and for information about the path option.

The array-handling procedure may be called several times during
the XML-INTO operaton. When the parser has found the number of elements
specified by the DIM keyword on the second parameter, the procedure
will be called. The final time the procedure is called may have fewer
elements than specified by the DIM keyword. If there are no elements
found, the procedure will not be called.
The handling procedure
must have the following parameters and return type:

Parameter number or return value

Data type and passing mode

Description

Return value

4-byte integer (10I 0)

Returning a value of zero indicates that parsing should continue;
returning any other value indictes that parsing should end.

1

Any type, passed by reference

Used to communicate between the XML-INTO operation and the
handler, and between successive calls to the handler.

2

Array, or array of data structures, passed by read-only reference
(CONST keyword)

The array elements contain the data from the XML elements specified
by the path option.

3

4-byte unsigned (10U 0), passed by value

The number of array elements in the second parameter that represent
XML data.

See %HANDLER (handlingProcedure : communicationArea ) for more information on %HANDLER.

Subfields of a data structure will be set in the order they appear
in the XML document; the order could be important if subfields overlap
within the data structure.

%NULLIND is not updated for any field or subfield during an XML-INTO
operation.

Operation extender H can be specified to cause numeric data to
be assigned half-adjusted. Operation extender E can be specified to
handle the following status codes:

00351

Error in XML parsing

00352

Invalid XML option

00353

XML document does not match RPG variable

00354

Error preparing for XML parsing

Note: Operation extenders can be specified only when Free-form
syntax is used.

For status 00351, the return code from the parser will be placed
in the subfield "External return code" in positions 368-371 of the
PSDS. This subfield will be set to zero at the beginning of the operation
and set to the value returned by the parser at the end of the operation.

If an unknown, invalid or unrelated option is found in the options
parameter of the %XML built-in function, the operation will fail with
status code 00352 (Error in XML options). The External return code
subfield in the PSDS will not be updated from the initial value of
zero, set when the operation begins.

The XML document is expected to match the RPG variable with respect
to the names of the XML elements or attributes.

The XML data for an RPG data structure is expected to have an
XML element with the same name as the data structure and child elements
and/or attributes with the same names as the RPG subfields.

The XML data for an RPG array is expected to have a series of
elements with the same name as the RPG array.

The path option can be used to set the name of the XML
element matching the name of the specified variable, but it cannot
be used to set the names of the XML elements and/or attributes matching
a specified variable's subfields. For example, if variable DS1 has
a subfield SF1, the XML element for DS1 can have any name, but the
XML element or attribute for SF1 must have the name "sf1" (or "SF1",
"Sf1", etc., depending on the case option).

When the RPG variable is an array or array of data structures,
or when the %HANDLER built-in function is specified, the XML elements
corresponding to the array elements are expected to be contained in
another XML element. By default, the XML elements will be expected
to be child elements of the outermost XML element in the document.
The path option can be used to specify the exact path to
the XML elements corresponding to the array elements. For example,
if the outermost XML element is named "transaction", and it has a
child element named "parts" which itself has several child elements
named "part", then to read the "part" XML elements into an array,
you would specify the option 'path=transaction/parts/part'.
<transaction>
<parts>
<part type = "bracket" size="15" num="100"/>
<part type="frame" size="2" num="500"/>
</parts>
<transaction>

When the XML document does not match the RPG variable, for example
if the XML document does not contain the default or specified path,
or if it is missing some XML elements or attributes to match the subfields
of an RPG data structure, the XML-INTO operation will fail with status
00353. The allowextra and allowmissing options can
be used to specify whether an XML element can have more or less data
than is required to fully set the RPG variable.

For some RPG data types, XML attributes can be specified to control
how the XML data is assigned to the RPG variable. See Rules for transferring data to RPG variables for XML-INTO and DATA-INTO for more information on these attributes.

If an XML reference other than the predefined references &amp, &apos, &lt, &gt, &quot,
or the hexadecimal unicode references &#xxxx is found, the result
will contain the reference itself, in the form "&refname;". If
this value is not valid for the data type, the operation will fail.
For example, if an XML element has the value <data>1&decpoint;50/data>
the string "1&decpoint;50" would be built up from the
three pieces "1", "&decpoint;", and "0". This data is
valid for a character or UCS-2 variable, but it would cause an error
if converted to other types.

Tip: If XML data is known to
contain such references, then following the completion of the XML-INTO
operation, character and UCS-2 data should be inspected for the presence
of references, and the correct value for the reference substituted
using string operations such as %SCANRPL, or %SCAN and %REPLACE.

If XML data is not valid for the type of the RPG variable it matches,
the operation will fail with status 0353; the specific status code
for the assignment error will appear in the replacement text for message
RNX0353.

Tip: To avoid the XML-INTO operation failing
because the data cannot be successfully assigned to RPG fields with
types such as Date or Numeric, the receiver variable can be defined
with subfields that are all of type character or UCS-2. Then the data
can be converted to other data types by the RPG program using the
conversion built-in functions %DATE, %INT, and so on.

The XML-INTO operation ignores the DOCTYPE declaration. The DOCTYPE
declaration may contain the values of entity references that your
program will have to handle manually. If you want to have access to
the DOCTYPE declaration of the XML document, you can use the XML-SAX
operation. Your XML-SAX handling procedure can halt the parsing as
soon as it has found the DOCTYPE declaration value, or as soon as
it knows that there will be no DOCTYPE declaration.

The following links provide more information on XML-INTO.

%DATA and %XML options for DATA-GEN, DATA-INTO, and XML-INTO

Expected format of XML data

Rules for transferring data to RPG variables for XML-INTO and DATA-INTO

Examples of the XML-INTO operation

Expected format of XML data

Rules for transferring data to RPG variables for XML-INTO and DATA-INTO

Examples of the XML-INTO operation

%DATA and %XML options for DATA-GEN, DATA-INTO, and XML-INTO

Parent topic: Operation Codes