CREATE VARIABLE

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

CREATE VARIABLE
The CREATE VARIABLE statement defines a global variable
at the application server.
InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared.
AuthorizationThe privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
The privilege to create in the schema. For more information, see Privileges necessary
to create in a schema.
Database administrator authority

The privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement
must include at least one of the following:
For the SYSVARIABLES catalog table: The INSERT privilege on the table, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on library QSYS2

Database administrator authority

If a distinct type or sequence is referenced, the privileges
held by the authorization ID of the statement must include at least
one of the following:
For the distinct type or sequence identified in the statement:
The USAGE privilege on the distinct type or sequence, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the distinct
type or sequence

Database administrator authority

If a function is referenced, the privileges held by the authorization
ID of the statement must include at least one of the following:
For the function identified in the statement: The EXECUTE privilege on the function, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the function

Database administrator authority

If a global variable is referenced, the privileges held by
the authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of
the following:
For the global variable identified in the statement: The READ privilege on the global variable, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the global
variable

Database administrator authority

If a table or view is referenced directly or indirectly, the
privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement must include
at least one of the following:
For each table and view referenced directly or indirectly: The SELECT privilege on the table or view, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the table
or view

Database administrator authority

To replace an existing variable, the privileges
held by the authorization ID of the statement must include at least
one of the following:
The following system authorities:The system authority of *OBJMGT on the service program for the
variable
All authorities needed to DROP the variable
The system authority *READ to the SYSVARIABLES catalog
table

Database administrator authority

For information about the system authorities corresponding
to SQL privileges, see Corresponding System
Authorities When Checking Privileges to a Sequence and Corresponding System
Authorities When Checking Privileges to a Distinct Type.
SyntaxCREATEOR
REPLACEVARIABLEvariable-nameFOR SYSTEM NAMEsystem-object-identifierdata-typeDEFAULT NULLDEFAULTconstantspecial-registerglobal-variable(expression)
data-typebuilt-in-typedistinct-type-name
built-in-typeSMALLINTINTEGERINTBIGINTDECIMALDECNUMERICNUM(5,0)(integer,0, integer)FLOAT(53)(integer)REALDOUBLEPRECISIONDECFLOAT(34)(16)CHARACTERCHAR(1)(integer)CHARACTERCHARVARYINGVARCHAR(integer)FOR BIT DATAFOR SBCS DATAFOR MIXED DATAccsid-clauseCHARACTERCHARLARGE OBJECTCLOB(1M)(integerKMG)FOR SBCS DATAFOR MIXED DATAccsid-clauseGRAPHIC(1)(integer)GRAPHIC VARYINGVARGRAPHIC(integer)DBCLOB(1M)(integerKMG)ccsid-clauseNATIONAL CHARACTERNATIONAL CHARNCHAR(1)(integer)NATIONAL CHARACTERNATIONAL CHARNCHARVARYINGNVARCHAR(integer)NATIONAL CHARACTERNCHARLARGE OBJECTNCLOB(1M)(integerKMG)BINARY(1)(integer)BINARY VARYINGVARBINARY(integer)BLOBBINARY LARGE OBJECT(1M)(integerKMG)DATETIME(0)TIMESTAMP(6)(integer)XMLccsid-clauseccsid-clauseCCSIDinteger

Description OR REPLACE
Specifies
to replace the definition for the variable if one exists at the current
server. The existing definition is effectively dropped before the
new definition is replaced in the catalog with the exception that
privileges that were granted on the variable are not affected. This
option is ignored if a definition for the variable does not exist
at the current server.
variable-name
Names the global variable. The name, including
the implicit or explicit qualifier, must not identify a global variable
that already exists at the current server. If a qualified variable
name is specified, the schema-name cannot
be QSYS2, QSYS, QTEMP, or SYSIBM. If SQL names were specified,
the variable will be created in the schema specified by the implicit
or explicit qualifier.
If system names were specified, the variable
will be created in the schema that is specified by the qualifier.
If not qualified:
If the value of the CURRENT SCHEMA special register is *LIBL,
the variable will be created in the current library (*CURLIB).
Otherwise, the variable will be created in the current schema.

FOR SYSTEM NAME system-object-identifier
Identifies the system-object-identifier of the global variable. system-object-identifier must
not be the same as a global variable that already exists at the current
server. The system-object-identifier must be an unqualified
system identifier. When system-object-identifier is specified, variable-name must
not be a valid system object name.

data-type
Specifies the data type or the global variable.
built-in-type
Specifies
a built-in data type. See CREATE TABLE for
a more complete description of each built-in data type.
distinct-type-name
Specifies
a distinct type. The length, precision, and scale of the global variable
are, respectively, and length, precision, and scale of the distinct
type. If a distinct type name is specified without a schema name,
the distinct type name is resolved by searching the schemas on the
SQL path. The same limitations that apply to built-in types apply
to the source type of the distinct type.
DEFAULT
Specifies a default value for the global variable. The value can
be a constant, a special register, a global variable, an expression,
or the keyword NULL. The default value is determined
on its first reference if a value is not explicitly specified. If
a default value is not specified, the variable is initialized to the
null value.
The default expression must not modify SQL data or perform an
external action. The expression must be assignment compatible with
the data type of the variable.
All tables, views, aliases, distinct types, sequences, global
variables, and user-defined functions referenced in the default expression
must exist at the current server when the global variable is created.
The table or view that an alias refers to must also exist when the
variable is created. This includes objects in library QTEMP. While
objects in QTEMP can be referenced in the default expression, dropping
those objects in QTEMP will not cause the global variable to be dropped.

NotesSession
scope: Global variables have a session scope. This means that
although they are available to all sessions that are active on the
database, their value is private for each session.
Modifications to the value of a global variable:
Modifications to the value of a global variable are not under transaction
control. The value of the global variable is preserved when a transaction
ends with either a COMMIT or a ROLLBACK statement.
Privileges to use a global variable: An attempt
to read from or to write to a global variable created by this statement
requires that the authorization ID attempting this action hold the
appropriate privilege on the global variable. The definer of the variable
is implicitly granted all privileges on the variable.
Setting of the default value: A created global
variable is instantiated to its default value when it is first referenced
within its given scope. Note that if a global variable is referenced
in a statement, it is instantiated independently of the control flow
for that statement.
Using a newly created session global variable: If
a global variable is created within a session, it cannot be used by
other sessions until the unit of work has been committed. However,
the new global variable can be used within the session that created
the variable before the unit of work commits.
Once a global
variable is instantiated for a session, changes to the global variable
in another session (such as DROP or GRANT) might not affect the variable
that has been instantiated.
Creating the global variable: A global variable
is created as a *SRVPGM object. If the variable name is a valid system
name but a *SRVPGM already exists with that name, an error is issued.
If the variable name is not a valid system name, a unique name is
generated using the rules for generating system table names. For information
about the rules for generating a name, see Rules for Table Name Generation.
The
global variable's definition is saved in the associated service program
object. If the *SRVPGM object is saved and then restored to this or
another system, the catalogs are automatically updated with the definition.
During
restore of the global variable:If a *SRVPGM object with the same system name exists, the *SRVPGM
will be replaced.

If a global variable and an SQL routine have the same
name, naming conflicts can be avoided by creating the global variable
first.
Variable ownership: The owner of the variable
is the user profile or group user profile of the thread executing
the statement.
Variable authority: If SQL names are used, variables
are created with the system authority of *EXCLUDE on *PUBLIC. If system
names are used, variables are created with the authority to *PUBLIC
as determined by the create authority (CRTAUT) parameter of the schema.
If the owner of the variable is a member of a group profile
(GRPPRF keyword) and group authority is specified (GRPAUT keyword),
that group profile will also have authority to the variable.
Variable instantiation authorization: When
a global variable is instantiated, the DEFAULT clause is evaluated
using the authority of the owner of the global variable.
REPLACE rules: When a variable is recreated
by REPLACE:Any existing comment or label is discarded.
Authorized users are maintained. The object owner could change.
Current journal
auditing is preserved.

ExamplesExample 1: Create a global
variable to indicate what printer to use for the session.
CREATE VARIABLE MYSCHEMA.MYJOB_PRINTER VARCHAR(30)
DEFAULT 'Default printer'
Example
2: Create a global variable to indicate the department where an
employee works.
CREATE VARIABLE SCHEMA1.GV_DEPTNO INTEGER
DEFAULT ((SELECT DEPTNO FROM HR.EMPLOYEES
WHERE EMPUSER = SESSION_USER))
Example
3: Create a global variable to indicate the security level of
the current user.
CREATE VARIABLE SCHEMA2.GV_SECURITY_LEVEL INTEGER
DEFAULT ( GET_SECURITY_LEVEL ( SESSION_USER))

Parent topic: Statements