CHAR

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

CHAR
The CHAR function returns a fixed-length character-string
representation.
Integer to Character
CHAR(integer-expression)
Decimal to Character
CHAR(decimal-expression,decimal-character)
Floating-point to Character
CHAR(floating-point-expression,decimal-character)
Decimal floating-point to Character
CHAR(decimal-floating-point-expression,decimal-character)
Character to Character
CHAR(character-expression,lengthDEFAULT,integer)
Graphic to Character
CHAR(graphic-expression,lengthDEFAULT,integer)
Datetime to Character
CHAR(datetime-expression,ISOUSAEURJISLOCAL)
The CHAR function returns a fixed-length
character-string representation of:
An integer number if the first argument is a SMALLINT, INTEGER,
or BIGINT.
A decimal number if the first argument is a decimal number.
A double-precision floating-point number if the first argument
is a DOUBLE or REAL.
A decimal floating-point number if the first argument is a DECFLOAT.
A character string if the first argument is any type of character
string.
A graphic string if the first argument is any type of graphic
string.
A date value if the first argument is a DATE.
A time value if the first argument is a TIME.
A timestamp value if the first argument is a TIMESTAMP.
A row ID value if the first argument is a ROWID.

The result of the function is a fixed-length character
string. If the first argument can be null, the result can be null;
if the first argument is null, the result is the null value.
Integer to Characterinteger-expression
An expression that returns a value that is a built-in integer
data type (either SMALLINT, INTEGER, or BIGINT).

The result is the fixed-length character-string representation
of the argument in the form of an SQL integer constant. The result
consists of n characters that are the significant digits that represent
the value of the argument with a preceding minus sign if the argument
is negative. The result is left justified.
If the argument is a small integer: The length of the result
is 6. If the number of characters in the result is less than 6, then
the result is padded on the right with blanks.

If the argument is a large integer: The length of the result
is 11. If the number of characters in the result is less than 11,
then the result is padded on the right with blanks.

If the argument is a big integer: The length of the result
is 20. If the number of characters in the result is less than 20,
then the result is padded on the right with blanks.

The CCSID of the result is the default SBCS CCSID at the
current server.
Decimal to Characterdecimal-expression
An expression that returns a value that is a built-in decimal
data type (either DECIMAL or NUMERIC). If a different precision and
scale is wanted, the DECIMAL scalar function can be used to make the
change.
decimal-character
Specifies the single-byte character constant that is used to delimit
the decimal digits in the result character string. The character must
be a period or comma. If the second argument is not specified, the
decimal point is the default decimal point. For more information,
see Decimal point.

The result is a fixed-length character string representation
of the argument. The result includes a decimal character and up to p
digits, where p is the precision of the decimal-expression with
a preceding minus sign if the argument is negative. Leading zeros
are not returned. Trailing zeros are returned. If
the scale of decimal-expression is zero,
the decimal character is not returned.
The length of the result is 2+p where p is
the precision of the decimal-expression.
This means that a positive value will always include one trailing
blank.
The CCSID of the result is the default SBCS CCSID at the
current server.
Floating-point to Characterfloating-point expression
An expression that returns a value that is a built-in floating-point
data type (DOUBLE or REAL).
decimal-character
Specifies the single-byte character constant that is used to delimit
the decimal digits in the result character string. The character must
be a period or comma. If the second argument is not specified, the
decimal point is the default decimal point. For more information,
see Decimal point.

The result is a fixed-length character-string representation
of the argument in the form of a floating-point constant. The length
of the result is 24. If the argument is negative, the first character
of the result is a minus sign. Otherwise, the first character is a
digit or the decimal-character. If the argument
is zero, the result is 0E0. Otherwise, the result includes the smallest
number of characters that can be used to represent the value of the
argument such that the mantissa consists of a single digit other than
zero followed by a decimal-character and
a sequence of digits.
If the number of characters in the result is less than
24, then the result is padded on the right with blanks.
The CCSID of the result is the default SBCS CCSID at the
current server.
Decimal floating-point to Characterdecimal-floating-point expression
An expression that returns a value that is a built-in decimal
floating-point data type (DECFLOAT).
decimal-character
Specifies the single-byte character constant that is used to delimit
the decimal digits in the result character string. The character must
be a period or comma. If the second argument is not specified, the
decimal point is the default decimal point. For more information,
see Decimal point.

The result is a fixed-length character-string
representation of the argument in the form of a decimal floating-point
constant.
The length attribute of the result is 42. The actual
length of the result is the smallest number of characters that represents
the value of the argument, including the sign, digits, and decimal-character.
Trailing zeros are significant. If the argument is negative, the first
character of the result is a minus sign; otherwise, the first character
is a digit or the decimal-character. If
the argument is zero, the result is 0.
If the DECFLOAT value
is Infinity, sNaN, or NaN, the strings
'INFINITY', 'SNAN', and 'NAN', respectively, are returned. If the
special value is negative, a minus sign will be the first character
in the string. The DECFLOAT special value sNaN does not result
in an exception when converted to a string.
If the number of
characters in the result is less than 42, then the result is padded
on the right with blanks.
The CCSID of the result is the default
SBCS CCSID at the current server.
Character to Charactercharacter-expression
An expression that returns a value that is a built-in
character-string data type.1
length
An integer constant that specifies the length attribute
for the resulting fixed length character string. The value must be
between 1 and 32766 (32765 if nullable). If the first argument is DBCS-only mixed data, the second argument cannot
be less than 4.If the second argument is not specified or
DEFAULT is specified:
If the character-expression is the empty string constant,
the length attribute of the result is 1.
Otherwise, the length attribute of the result is the same as the
length attribute of the first argument.

The actual length is the same as the length attribute of the
result. If the length of the character-expression is less than
the length attribute of the result, the result is padded with blanks
up to the length of the result. If the length of the character-expression is
greater than the length attribute of the result, truncation is performed.
A warning (SQLSTATE 01004) is returned unless the truncated characters
were all blanks.

integer
An integer constant that specifies the CCSID of the result.
It must be a valid SBCS CCSID, mixed data CCSID, or 65535 (bit data).
If the third argument is an SBCS CCSID, then the result is SBCS data.
If the third argument is a mixed CCSID, then the result is mixed data and the length attribute of the result cannot be less
than 4. If the third argument is 65535, then the result is bit
data. If the third argument is a SBCS CCSID, then the first argument
cannot be a DBCS-either or DBCS-only string. If the third argument
is not specified then:
If the first argument is SBCS data, then the result is SBCS data.
The CCSID of the result is the same as the CCSID of the first argument.
If the first argument is mixed data and the length
attribute of the result is greater than or equal to 4, then the
result is mixed data. The CCSID of the result is the same as the CCSID
of the first argument.
If the first argument is mixed data that is DBCS-open
or DBCS-either and the length attribute of the result is less than
4, the CCSID of the result is the associated SBCS CCSID for the mixed
data CCSID.

Graphic to Character graphic-expression
An expression that returns a value that is a built-in graphic-string
data type. It must not be DBCS-graphic data.
length
An integer constant that specifies the length attribute
for the resulting fixed length character string. The value must be
between 1 and 32766 (32765 if nullable). If the second argument
is not specified or DEFAULT is specified:
If the graphic-expression is the empty string constant,
the length attribute of the result is 1.
If the result is SBCS data, the result length is n.
If the result is mixed data, the result length is
(2.5*(n-1)) + 4.

The actual length is the same as the length attribute of the
result. If the length of the graphic-expression is less than
the length of the result, the result is padded with blanks up to the
length of the result. If the length of the graphic-expression is
greater than the length attribute of the result, truncation is performed.
A warning (SQLSTATE 01004) is returned unless the truncated characters
were all blanks.

integer
An integer constant that specifies the CCSID of the result.
It must be a valid SBCS CCSID or mixed data CCSID. If the third argument
is an SBCS CCSID, then the result is SBCS data. If the third argument
is a mixed CCSID, then the result is mixed data and
the length attribute of the result cannot be less than 4. The
third argument cannot be 65535. If the third argument is not specified,
the CCSID of the result is the default CCSID at the current server.
If the default CCSID is mixed data and the length
attribute of the result is greater than or equal to 4, then the
result is mixed data. Otherwise, the result is SBCS data.

Datetime to Characterdatetime-expression
An expression that is one of the following three built-in data
types date
The
result is the character-string representation of the date in the format
specified by the second argument. If the second argument is not specified,
the format used is the default date format. If the format is ISO,
USA, EUR, or JIS, the length of the result is 10. Otherwise the length
of the result is the length of the default date format. For more information
see String representations of datetime values.
time
The result is the character-string representation of the time
in the format specified by the second argument. If the second argument
is not specified, the format used is the default time format. The
length of the result is 8. For more information see String representations of datetime values.
timestamp
The second argument is not applicable and must not be specified. The
result is the character-string representation of the timestamp. If datetime-expression is a TIMESTAMP(0), the length
of the result is 19. If the data type of datetime-expression is
a TIMESTAMP(n), the length of the result is 20+n. Otherwise
the length of the result is 26.

The CCSID of the result is the default SBCS CCSID at
the current server.
ISO, EUR, USA, or JIS
Specifies the date or time format of the resulting character string.
For more information, see String representations of datetime values.
LOCAL
Specifies that the date or time format of the resulting character
string should come from the DATFMT, DATSEP, TIMFMT, and TIMSEP attributes
of the job at the current server.

NoteSyntax alternatives: The CAST
specification should be used to increase the portability of applications
when the first argument is a string and the length argument is specified.
For more information, see CAST specification.
ExamplesAssume the column PRSTDATE has an internal value equivalent to
1988-12-25. The date format is *MDY and the date separator is a slash
(/).   SELECT CHAR(PRSTDATE, USA)
    FROM PROJECT
Results in the
value ‘12/25/1988'.
  SELECT CHAR(PRSTDATE)
    FROM PROJECT
Results in the
value ‘12/25/88'.
Assume the column STARTING has an internal value equivalent to
17.12.30, the host variable HOUR_DUR (DECIMAL(6,0)) is a time duration
with a value of 050000 (that is, 5 hours).   SELECT CHAR(STARTING, USA)
    FROM CL_SCHED
Results in the
value ‘5:12 PM'.   SELECT CHAR(STARTING + :HOUR_DUR, JIS)
    FROM CL_SCHED
Results in the
value ‘10:12:00'.
Assume the column RECEIVED (timestamp) has an internal value equivalent
to the combination of the PRSTDATE and STARTING columns.   SELECT CHAR(RECEIVED)
    FROM IN_TRAY
Results in the
value ‘1988-12-25-17.12.30.000000'.
Use the CHAR function to make the type fixed-length character
and reduce the length of the displayed results to 10 characters for
the LASTNAME column (defined as VARCHAR(15)) of the EMPLOYEE table.
  SELECT CHAR(LASTNAME,10)
    FROM EMPLOYEE
For rows having
a LASTNAME with a length greater than 10 characters (excluding trailing
blanks), a warning (SQLSTATE 01004) that the value is truncated is
returned.
Use the CHAR function to return the values for EDLEVEL (defined
as SMALLINT) as a fixed length string.   SELECT CHAR(EDLEVEL)
    FROM EMPLOYEE
An EDLEVEL of
18 would be returned as the CHAR(6) value '18    ' (18 followed by
4 blanks).
Assume that the same SALARY subtracted from 20000.25 is to be
returned with a comma as the decimal character.   SELECT CHAR(20000.25 - SALARY, ',')
    FROM EMPLOYEE
A SALARY of 21150
returns the value '–1149,75   ' (–1149,75 followed by
3 blanks).
Assume a host variable, DOUBLE_NUM, has a double precision floating-point
data type and a value of -987.654321E-35.   SELECT CHAR(:DOUBLE_NUM)
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
Results
in the character value '-9.8765432100000002E-33 '.

Parent topic: Scalar functions

1 A binary string is also allowed if
a CCSID is not specified or if a CCSID of 65535 is explicitly specified.