Command definition process

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands > Defining commands

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands

Command definition process
The overall process to define your own command
involves several different phases, some of which are optional.
The following illustration shows the process of creating
a command. The text that follows the illustration describes each phase of
the process.
Writing your own validity checking and prompt override programs are optional
steps.
The command definition statements contain the information that is necessary
to prompt the workstation user for input, to validate that input, and to define
the values to be passed to the program that is called when the command is
run.

Create Command command
The Create Command (CRTCMD) command
processes the command definition statements to create the command definition
object.
Command definition object
The command definition object is the object that is checked by
a system program to ensure that the command is valid and that the correct
parameters were entered.
Validity checking
The system performs validity checking on commands. You can also
write your own validity checking program although it is not required.
Prompt override program
You can write prompt override programs to supply current values
for parameter defaults when prompting the command.
Command processing program
The command processing program (CPP) is the program that the command
analyzer calls to perform the function requested.
Command exit programs and independent ASPs
Command exit programs needed by a command cannot be in a different
independent auxiliary storage pool (ASP).
Authority needed for defining commands
When creating a command, you need certain authorities to programs
and libraries.
Example: Creating a command
This example shows how to create a command to allow the system
operator to call a program to start the system.

Parent topic: Defining commands