PREFIX(prefix{:nbr_of_char_replaced})

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > File Description Specifications > File-Description Keywords > File-Description Keywords

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > File Description Specifications > File-Description Keywords

PREFIX(prefix{:nbr_of_char_replaced})

The PREFIX keyword is used to partially rename the fields in an
externally described file.The characters specified
in the first parameter are prefixed to the names of all fields defined
in all records of the externally-described file. The characters
can be specified as a name, for example PREFIX(F1_), or as a character
literal, for example PREFIX('F1_'). A character literal must be used
if the prefix contains a period, for example PREFIX('F1DS.') or PREFIX('F1DS.A').
To remove characters from the beginning of every name, specify an
empty string as the first parameter: PREFIX('':number_to_remove). In
addition, you can optionally specify a numeric value to indicate the
number of characters, if any, in the existing name to be replaced.
If the 'nbr_of_char_replaced' is not specified, then the string is
attached to the beginning of the name.

If the 'nbr_of_char_replaced' is specified, it must be a numeric
constant containing a value between 0 and 9 with no decimal places.
For example, the specification PREFIX(YE:3) would change the field
name 'YTDTOTAL' to 'YETOTAL'. Specifying a value of zero is the same
as not specifying 'nbr_of_char_replaced' at all.

The 'nbr_of_char_replaced' parameter is not used when
applying the prefix to an alias name. See the ALIAS keyword
for information on how the PREFIX keyword interacts with the ALIAS
keyword.

Rules:

To explicitly rename a field on an Input specification
when the PREFIX keyword has been specified for a file you must choose
the correct field name to specify for the External Field Name (positions
21 - 30) of the Input specification. The name specified depends on
whether the prefixed name has been used prior to the rename specification.

If there has been a prior reference made to the prefixed name,
the prefixed name must be specified.

If there has not been a prior reference made to the prefixed name,
the external name of the input field must be specified.

Once the rename operation has been coded then the new name must
be used to reference the input field.
For more information, see External Field Name of the Input specification.

The total length of the name after applying the prefix must not
exceed the maximum length of an RPG field name.
If the file is a global file defined
without the LIKEFILE or QUALIFIED keywords,
the total length of the name must not exceed 14 characters,
the length of the Name entries of the Input and Output specifications.

The number of characters in the name to be prefixed must not be
less than or equal to the value represented by the 'nbr_of_char_replaced'
parameter. That is, after applying the prefix, the resulting name
must not be the same as the prefix string.

If the prefix is a character literal, it can contain
a period or end in a period. In this case, the field names must all
be subfields of the same qualified data structure. The data structure
must be defined as a qualified data structure. For example, for PREFIX('F1DS.'),
data structure F1DS must be define as a qualified data structure;
if the file has fields FLD1 and FLD2, the data structure must have
subfields F1DS.FLD1 and F1DS.FLD2. Similarly, for PREFIX('F2DS.A'),
data structure F2DS must be a qualified data structure; if the file
has fields FLD1 and FLD2, the data structure must have subfields F2DS.AFLD1
and F2DS.AFLD2.

If the prefix is a character literal, it must be uppercase.

If an externally-described data structure is used to
define the fields in the file, care must be taken to ensure that
the field names in the file are the same as the subfield names in
the data structure. The following table shows the prefix required
for an externally-described file and externally-described data structure
for several prefixed versions of the name "XYNAME". When the "Internal
name" column contains a dot, for example D1.NAME, the externally-described
data structure is defined as QUALIFIED, and the PREFIX for the File
specification must contain a dot.

PREFIX for file

PREFIX for externally-described data structure

Internal name

PREFIX(A)

PREFIX(A)

AXYNAME

PREFIX(A:2)

PREFIX(A:2)

ANAME

PREFIX('D.')

None

D.XYNAME

PREFIX('D.' : 2)

PREFIX('' : 2)

D.NAME

PREFIX('D.A')

PREFIX(A)

D.AXYNAME

PREFIX('D.A' : 2)

PREFIX(A : 2)

D.ANAME

PREFIX('':2)

PREFIX('' : 2)

NAME

Examples:

The following example adds the prefix "NEW_" to the
beginning of the field names for file NEWFILE, and the prefix "OLD_"
to the beginning of the field names for file OLDFILE.
Fnewfile o e disk prefix(NEW_)
Foldfile if e disk prefix(OLD_)
C READ OLDREC
C EVAL NEWIDNO = OLD_IDNO
C EVAL NEWABAL = OLD_ABAL
C WRITE NEWREC

The following example uses PREFIX(N:2) on both file
FILE1 and the externally-described data structure DS1. The File-specification
prefix will cause the FILE1 fields XYIDNUM and XYCUSTNAME to be
known as NIDNUM and NCUSTNAME in the program; the Data-specification
prefix will cause the data structure to have subfields NIDNUM and
NCUSTNAME. During the READ operation, data from the record will
be moved to the subfields of DS1, which can then be passed to the
subprocedure processRec to process the data in the record.
Ffile1 if e disk prefix(N:2)
D ds1 e ds extname(file1) prefix(N:2)
C READ file1
C CALLP processRec (ds1)

The following example uses prefix 'MYDS.' to associate
the fields in MYFILE with the subfields of qualified data structure
MYDS.
Fmyfile if e disk prefix('MYDS.')
D myds e ds qualified extname(myfile)

The next example uses prefix 'MYDS2.F2':3 to associate
the fields in MYFILE with the subfields of qualified data structure
MYDS2. The subfields themselves are further prefixed by replacing
the first three characters with 'F2'. The fields used by this file
will be MYDS2.F2FLD1 and MYDS2.F2FLD2. (Data structure MYDS2 must
be defined with a similar prefix. However, it is not exactly the same,
since it does not include the data structure name.)
A R REC
A ACRFLD1 10A
A ACRFLD2 5S 0
Fmyfile2 if e disk prefix('MYDS2.F2':3)
D myds2 e ds qualified extname(myfile)
D prefix('F2':3)

Parent topic: File-Description Keywords