SFLINZ (Subfile Initialize) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

SFLINZ (Subfile Initialize) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword on the subfile-control
record format to specify that the IBM® i operating
system is to initialize all records in the subfile on an output operation
to the subfile-control record format identified by the SFLCTL (Subfile Control)
keyword.

The fields in each subfile record are initialized to blanks for
character type fields, to nulls for floating-point type fields, to zeros for
other numeric type fields, or to the constant value specified on input-only
fields if the DFT keyword is specified.
When the subfile is displayed
(on an output operation to the subfile control record), all records in the
subfile are displayed with the same value. Any record previously written is
overwritten and no longer has its earlier value.
This keyword has no
parameters.
The following case is true when SFLINZ is
in effect on an output operation to the subfile-control record format. If
keywords (such as DSPATR(HI)) are specified on fields in the subfile record
format and if option indicators are specified on those keywords, the subfile
is displayed as though all option indicators are off (hex F0). Note that a
keyword can be selected if N is specified for the option indicator.
After
your program sends an output operation to the subfile control record with
SFLINZ in effect, all records in the subfile are considered active but not
changed. They are considered changed only when the workstation user changes
them or when your program sends an output operation to the subfile record
format with the SFLNXTCHG keyword in effect.
To initialize a subfile
with no active records, use the SFLRNA (Subfile Records Not Active) keyword.
In
general, use SFLINZ for the following purposes:
Specify SFLINZ with the SFLRNA keyword so that your program can initialize
a subfile, then add records to that subfile without having the initialized
records considered active.

Specify SFLINZ with the SFLPGMQ keyword so that your program can build
a message subfile with a single output operation.

Notes:
If field selection is used in the subfile record format, SFLINZ is not
valid. Your program can only initialize the subfile by a series of output
operations to the subfile record format, selecting fields as needed.

SFLINZ cannot be specified on the subfile-control record format for a
message subfile (SFLMSGRCD) unless the SFLPGMQ keyword is also specified at
the field level in the same subfile-control record format.

Option indicators are valid for this keyword. Display
size condition names are not valid.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the SFLINZ keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R SFLR SFL
00020A*
00030A* (at least one displayable field)
00040A R SFLCTLR SFLCTL(SFLR)
00050A SFLPAG(17)
00060A SFLSIZ(17)
00070A 01 SFLDSP SFLDSPCTL
00080A 02 SFLINZ
00090A UNLOCK(*ERASE *MDTOFF)
A