Applying the select list

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > subselect > select-clause > select-clause

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > subselect > select-clause

Applying the select list
The results of applying the select list to R depend on
whether GROUP BY or HAVING is used:
If GROUP BY or HAVING is used
Each column-name in the select list
must identify a grouping expression, or be specified within an aggregate
function, or be a correlated reference:If the grouping expression is a column name, the select list may
apply additional operators to the column name. For example, if the
grouping expression is column C1, the select list may contain C1+1.
If the grouping expression is not a column name, the select list
may not apply additional operators to the expression. For example,
if the grouping expression is C1+1, the select list may contain C1+1,
but not (C1+1)/8.

The select list is applied to each group of R, and the result
contains as many rows as there are groups in R. When the select list
is applied to a group of R, that group is the source of the arguments
of the aggregate functions in the select list.
The RRN, RID, DATAPARTITIONNAME, DATAPARTITIONNUM, DBPARTITIONNAME,
DBPARTITIONNUM, and HASHED_VALUE functions cannot be specified in
the select list.

If neither GROUP BY nor HAVING is used
The select list
must not include any aggregate functions, or each column-name must
be specified in an aggregate function or be a correlated reference.
If the select list does not include aggregate functions, it is
applied to each row of R and the result contains as many rows as there
are rows in R.
If the select list is a list of aggregate functions, R is the
source of the arguments of the functions and the result of applying
the select list is one row.

In either case the nth column of the result contains
the values specified by applying the nth expression in the
operational form of the select list.
Effect of column masks on result columns: When
column masks are enabled, they determine the values in the final result
table of an outermost select list. When a column mask is enabled for
a column, if the column appears in the outermost select list (either
implicitly or explicitly), the column mask is applied to the column
to produce the values for the final result table. If the column itself
does not appear in the outermost select list, but is included in the
output (for example, it appears in a materialized table expression
or a view), the masked value is included in the result table of the
table expression or view so that it can be used in the final result
table.
The enabled column masks do not interfere with the operations
of other clauses within the statement, such as the WHERE, GROUP BY,
HAVING, SELECT DISTINCT, and ORDER BY clauses.
The rows that
are returned in the final result table remain the same, except that
the values in the result rows might be masked. As such, if a column
with masked values also appears in an ORDER BY clause with a sort-key
expression, the order is based on the original column values (the
masked values in the final result table might not reflect that order).
Similarly, the masked values might not reflect the uniqueness enforced
by a SELECT DISTINCT. If the masked column is embedded in an expression,
the result of the expression might be different because the column
mask is applied to the column before the expression is evaluated.
For example, a column mask on column SSN can change the result of
the function COUNT(DISTINCT SSN) because the DISTINCT operation is
performed on the masked values.
When the definition of a column
mask is applied to an SQL statement to mask column values in the final
result table, the semantics of the column mask might conflict with
certain SQL semantics in the statement. In these situations, the combination
of the statement and the column mask might return an error.
See ALTER TABLE for more information
about the application of enabled column masks.

Parent topic: select-clause