SFLPGMQ (Subfile Program Message Queue) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

SFLPGMQ (Subfile Program Message Queue) keyword for display files

You use this field-level keyword on the second (and
last) field in the subfile record format for a message subfile.

This field contains the name of the program message queue used
by the IBM® i operating
system to build a message subfile. In addition, SFLPGMQ can be specified on
the subfile-control record format when the SFLINZ keyword is specified on
the subfile-control record format.
The format of the keyword is: SFLPGMQ([10] | [276])
When
10 is specified, SFLPGMQ generates a 10-byte field. 10 is the default.
When
276 is specified, SFLPGMQ generates a 276-byte field.
This field is
predefined as a character data type, hidden field. The following rules apply:

The field name and the SFLPGMQ keyword and parameters are the only DDS
you can specify for this field.

If the name of the program message queue placed in this field at processing
time is less than the field length (10 or 276 bytes), it must be left-aligned
and padded with blanks.

For Integrated Language Environment® (ILE) programs using the 276-byte parameter value,
the format of the field data must be as follows:
The first 256 bytes contains the ILE call message queue name. The call
message queue name is the same as the ILE procedure name. The name must be
left-aligned and padded with blanks.

Bytes 257 through 266 will optionally contain the ILE module name. The
name, when specified, must be left-aligned and padded with blanks. If no module
name is provided, these bytes must be set to blanks.

Bytes 267 through 276 will optionally contain the name of the ILE bound
program name. The name, when specified, must be left-aligned and padded with
blanks. If no bound program name is provided, these bytes must be set to blanks. Notes:
If a parameter value of 10 is used on SFLPGMQ and an ILE procedure name
longer than 10 bytes is placed into this field at processing time, the procedure
name is truncated to 10 bytes. The results will be unpredictable.

If a parameter value of 276 is used on SFLPGMQ and a program message queue
name is placed into this field at processing time, bytes 257 through 276 must
be set to blanks. If these bytes are not blank, the system assumes that a
call message queue name has been given and will not find the specified program
message queue.

If the SFLPGMQ keyword is specified on both the subfile and subfile control
record, the SFLPGMQ parameter values must match. However, different subfiles
within the same file can use different SFLPGMQ parameter values.

This field is required on the subfile record format (identified
by the SFL keyword) to build the subfile one message at a time through multiple
output operations to the subfile record format.
You can also specify
this field on the subfile-control record format (identified by the SFLCTL
keyword) to build the subfile all at once through a single output operation
to the subfile control record. Specify option indicators with the SFLINZ keyword
to control the way the subfile is built.

Multiple output operationIf you specify the field
name and SFLPGMQ on the subfile record, you build the subfile one message
at a time with separate output operations to the subfile record format. For
each output operation, the message reference key must be in the first field
of the record (SFLMSGKEY keyword), and the name of the program message queue
must be in the second field. At the time of the output operation, the IBM i program retrieves the identified
message from the queue and places it in the subfile as a record.
Note: A
CL program cannot be used for a multiple output operation. The relative record
number required each time a message is built is not supported for CL.

Single output operationIf you specify SFLPGMQ (with
its named field) and the SFLINZ keyword on the subfile-control record format,
you build the entire subfile with one output operation directed to the subfile-control
record format. On the output operation, the IBM i operating
system initializes the subfile with all messages that are on the program message
queue whose name is in the SFLPGMQ field. If necessary, the IBM i operating
system extends the subfile to contain all messages on the queue. For this
function, the SFLMSGRCD, SFLMSGKEY, and SFLPGMQ keywords must be specified
with the subfile record format (SFL keyword). The SFLPGMQ and SFLMSGKEY keywords
are ignored for this function and your program need not set the values of
their fields.

Special valueThe SFLPGMQ field can contain a special
value, * (asterisk), instead of a program message queue name. If the program
moves an asterisk to the SFLPGMQ field, the IBM i operating
system uses the message queue of the program issuing the output operation.
You cannot use an asterisk if your program is a CL program.

Both multiple and single output operationsIf you
specify SFLPGMQ with both the subfile record format and subfile-control
record format, you can use the single operation function one time and the
multiple operation function some other time. Do this by setting indicators
before issuing the output operation; however, all operations to a particular
subfile must be consistent (multiple or single, but not intermixed) when preparing
for a single display of the subfile.
Option indicators and display size
condition names are not valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the SFLPGMQ keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R RCDMSGILE SFL SFLMSGRCD(3)
00020A FLDKEY SFLMSGKEY
00030A FLDPGM SFLPGMQ(276)
00040A R SFLCTLILE SFLCTL(RCDMSG)
00050A 01 SFLINZ
00060A SFLPAG(17)
00070A SFLSIZ(17)
00080A SFLDSP SFLDSPCTL
A :
A :
00110A FLDPGM SFLPGMQ(276)
A R RCDMSGOPM SFL SFLMSGRCD(3)
A FLDKEY SFLMSGKEY
A FLDPGM SFLPGMQ
A R SFLCTLOPM SFLCTL(RCDMSG)
A 02 SFLINZ
A SFLPAG(17)
A SFLSIZ(17)
A SFLDSP SFLDSPCTL
A :
A :
A FLDPGM SFLPGMQ(10)
AIn this example, the program can build the subfile with
more than one output operation (indicator 01 off) or a single output operation
(indicator 01 on) to the subfile-control record format.
In the first
record, the name of the subfile program queue can be as long as 276 bytes,
while the name of the subfile program queue in the third record format can
only be 10 bytes long.