Hierarchical queries

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > subselect > subselect

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > subselect

Hierarchical queries
Hierarchical queries are a form of recursive query that
provides support for retrieving a hierarchy, such as a bill of materials,
from relational data using a CONNECT BY clause.
Connect-by recursion uses the same subquery for the seed
(start) and the recursive step (connect). This combination provides
a concise method of representing recursions such as bills-of-material,
reports-to-chains, or email threads.
Connect-by recursion returns
an error if a cycle occurs. A cycle occurs when a row produces itself,
either directly or indirectly. Using the optional CONNECT BY NOCYCLE
clause, the recursion can be directed to ignore the duplicated row,
thus avoiding both the cycle and the error.
subselectHierarchical query support includes
the following extensions to the subselect.
The subselect includes a hierarchical-query-clause
The clauses of the subselect are processed in the following sequence:FROM clause
hierarchical-query-clause
WHERE clause
GROUP BY clause
HAVING clause
SELECT clause
ORDER BY clause
FETCH FIRST clause

If the subselect includes a hierarchical-query-clause,
special rules apply for the order of processing the predicates in
the WHERE clause. The search-condition is factored into predicates
along with its AND conditions (conjunction). If a predicate is an
implicit join predicate (that is, it references more than one table
in the FROM clause), the predicate is applied before the hierarchical-query-clause.
Any predicate referencing at most one table in the FROM clause is
applied to the intermediate result table of the hierarchical-query-clause.
A hierarchical query involving joins should be written using explicit
joined tables with an ON clause to avoid confusion about the application
of WHERE clause predicates.

The ORDER SIBLINGS BY clause can be specified if the subselect
includes a hierarchical-query-clause. This clause specifies
that the ordering applies only to siblings within the hierarchies.

hierarchical-query-clause
A subselect that includes a hierarchical-query-clause is
called a hierarchical query.
pseudo columns
A pseudo column is an identifier that shares the same namespace
as columns and variables. After regular name resolution for a column
has failed, DB2® attempts to
match an unqualified identifier to a pseudo column name.
CONNECT_BY_ROOT
The CONNECT_BY_ROOT unary operator is for use only in hierarchical
queries. For every row in the hierarchy, this operator returns the
expression for the row's root ancestor.
PRIOR
The PRIOR unary operator is for use only in the CONNECT
BY clause of hierarchical queries.
SYS_CONNECT_BY_PATH
The SYS_CONNECT_BY_PATH function is used in hierarchical
queries to build a string representing a path from the root row to
this row.

Parent topic: subselect