HLPRCD (Help Record) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

HLPRCD (Help Record) keyword for display files

You use this file-level or help-specification-level
keyword to specify the record format containing the online help information
to be displayed when the Help key is pressed.

The format of the keyword is:
HLPRCD(record-format-name [[library-name/]file-name])The
record format can exist either in the file being defined or in the file specified
on HLPRCD. If you do not specify the file name, the record format must exist
in the file being defined.
The file-name parameter identifies the file
containing the record format. The current library list (*LIBL) at program
run time is used if you do not specify the library name.
The
record specified on an H-specification-level HLPRCD keyword is displayed if
both of the following conditions are true:
The cursor is located in the help area (defined by HLPARA) for that H
specification.

The H specification is active. (The option indicator on the H-specification-level
HLPRCD keyword determines whether the H specification is active.)

The record specified on a file-level HLPRCD keyword is displayed
when no help area for the active records contains the current cursor location.
Option
indicators are valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the HLPRCD keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A HELP
A HLPRCD(DFTHELP HELPFILE)
A R RECORD1
A H HLPARA(1 1 24 80)
A 99 HLPRCD(ERRHELP)
A H HLPARA(1 1 1 80)
A HLPRCD(HELPRCD1 HELPFILE)
A FIELD1 10A 1 10
AWhen indicator 99 is set on, the online help information
in the record ERRHELP (which must exist in this display file) displays when
the Help key is pressed. If indicator 99 is set off and the cursor is located
on the first line when the Help key is pressed, the record HELPRCD1 in file
HELPFILE will display. Otherwise, the online help information from the record
specified on the file-level HLPRCD keyword will display when the Help key
is pressed.