DUPLICATES Phrase

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Environment Division > Input-Output Section > RECORD KEY Clause > RECORD KEY Clause

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Environment Division > Input-Output Section > RECORD KEY Clause

DUPLICATES Phrase
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension The DUPLICATES phrase can only be specified for files
assigned duplicate record keys. This allows the file to have keys
with the same values. If the file has multiple formats, two keys in
different formats have the same values only when the key lengths and
the contents of the keys are the same.
For example, given a
file with the following two formats: Format F1 with keys A, B, C
Format F2 with keys A, B, D.

If fields C and D are the same length, have the same
data type, and have the same values, the file would contain two records
with a duplicate key. The term duplicate key applies only
to a complete record key for the format. A record key for the format
consists of the key field(s) defined for a DDS format for records
residing on the database. The term does not apply to the common key
for the file (only fields A and B in the above example).
Users
can indicate DUPLICATES on the RECORD KEY clause. A file status of
95 is returned after a successful open when: The DUPLICATES phrase is specified in the COBOL program and the
file was created with UNIQUE specified in DDS.
The DUPLICATES phrase is not specified in the COBOL program and
the file was created allowing nonunique keys.

Processing files when either of these conditions exist
can cause unpredictable results.
In a file that allows duplicates
and is processed randomly or dynamically, the duplicate record that
is updated or deleted must be the proper one. To ensure this, the
last input/output statement processed prior to the REWRITE or DELETE
operation must be a successfully processed READ statement without
the NO LOCK phrase.
If the DDS file level keyword LIFO (last-in-first-out)
is specified, the duplicate records within a physical file are retrieved
in a last-in-first-out order.
End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension data-name-2
Data-name-2 is the RECORD KEY data item. It must be described
as a fixed-length alphanumeric item within a record description entry
associated with the file. It must not reference a group item that
contains a variable occurrence data item. Data-name-2 may be qualified,
but it must not be subscripted. The length of the record key is
restricted; the key length, in bytes, cannot exceed 2 000. For more
information, see the DB2® for
i section
of the Database and File Systems category in the IBM® i
Information Center at
this Web site - http://www.ibm.com/systems/i/infocenter/.
If
the indexed file contains variable-length records, data-name-2 must
be contained within the first "x" positions of the record, where "x" equals
the minimum record size specified for the file.
For EXTERNAL
files, all file description entries in the run unit that are associated
with the EXTERNAL file must specify the same data description entry
for data-name-2 with the same relative location within the associated
record; otherwise the results are undefined.

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension The RECORD
KEY data item, data-name-2, can be a date-time item or numeric item
when the file is assigned to a DATABASE device type. The numeric item
can have a usage of DISPLAY, COMP-1, COMP-2, COMP (COMP-3), COMP-4,
COMP-5, PACKED-DECIMAL, or BINARY. The numeric item can also be an
external floating-point data item. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension ILE COBOL supports
a wide range of date and time data item formats. Many of these formats
are not supported by DDS; in this case, the underlying DDS field must
be defined as a character or numeric field. In cases where COBOL defines
a date-time item, but the underlying DDS field is not date-time, retrieving
or writing records to the database will be in the order determined
by the underlying DDS data type. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension The keys
are ordered within the collating sequence used when the file was created.
The
data description of data-name-2 and its relative location within the
record must be the same as the ones used when the file was defined
in DDS.
The record description that defines data-name-2 will
always be used to access the record key field for the I-O operation.

Parent topic: RECORD KEY Clause