Length for physical and logical files (positions 30 through
34)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Define physical and logical files using DDS > Positional entries for physical and logical files (positions 1 through 44)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Define physical and logical files using DDS > Positional entries for physical and logical files (positions 1 through 44)

Length for physical and logical files (positions 30 through
34)

You use these positions to specify the length
of a physical or logical file field.

For a physical file, use these positions to specify the
field length for each named field (unless you copy it from a referenced
field). Specify the number of digits for a numeric type field, or
specify the number of characters for a character type field.
For
a logical file, use these positions to specify the length of a logical
field. Specify the length only to override or change the length of
the corresponding field in the physical file on which this logical
file is based. If you leave this position blank, the field you are
defining has the same length as the corresponding field in the physical
file(s) on which the logical file(s) is based. If the field in the
physical file is variable length and you leave the length blank, the
field is also variable length in the logical file. If you do specify
a length, the field in the logical file is fixed length unless you
also specify the VARLEN keyword. Additionally, the SST (Substring)
keyword can be used to control the length of a logical file field
by specifying a character string that is a subset of another field.
If
you specify length, it must be right-aligned; leading zeros are optional.

Figure 1 shows correct and incorrect
field length specifications for a physical file.
Figure 1. Correct and incorrect length specifications for physical files

|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5
00010A FIELD1 7
A
00020A FIELD2 7
A
00030A FIELD3 R +7
A

Note: FIELD1 shows the field length specified incorrectly. FIELD2
and FIELD3 show the field length specified correctly.

Valid length specifications are:

Data type

Valid lengths

Character

1 through 32 766 characters

Hexadecimal

1 through 32 766 bytes

Binary

1 through 18 digits

Binary character

1 through 32 766 characters

Zoned decimal

1 through 63 digits

Packed decimal

1 through 63 digits

Floating-point (single precision)

1 through 9 digits

Floating-point (double precision)

1 through 17 digits

Date

6, 8, or 10 characters

Time

8 characters

Timestamp

26 characters

The length for fields with data type L (date), T (time),
or Z (timestamp) is determined by the system. You should not enter
a field length in positions 30 through 34.
The field length
for date and time includes the separator.
A timestamp has a
fixed format that has the following form: YYYY-MM-DD-hh.mm.ss.uuuuuu
Type
in a maximum of 9 digits for single precision and 17 digits for double
precision. The IBM® i program
supports a floating-point accuracy of 7 digits for single precision
and 15 digits for double precision.
The total number of bytes
occupied by all the fields in a record must not exceed 32 766
(in storage). See Table 1 for rules on
determining the total length of the record format.
The system
determines the number of bytes actually occupied in storage as follows:

Data type

Bytes occupied in storage

Character

Number of characters

Hexadecimal

Number of bytes

Binary

1 through 4 digits

2 bytes

5 through 9 digits

4 bytes

10 through 18 digits

8 bytes

Binary character

Number of characters

Zoned decimal

Number of digits

Packed decimal

(Number of digits/2) + 1
(truncated if fractional)

Floating-point (single precision)

4 bytes

Floating-point (double precision)

8 bytes

Date

10 characters without DATFMT keyword

 

6, 8 or 10 characters with DATFMT keyword

Time

8 characters

Timestamp

26 characters

Note: The system performs arithmetic operations more efficiently
for a packed decimal than for a zoned decimal data type.

Table 1 describes the rules
for determining total format length.

Table 1. Rules for determining total format length

Situation

Action

Does the record format contain any
variable-length fields?

Add an extra 24 bytes to the total format length.

Add an extra 2 bytes to the format length for each field that
is variable length.

Does the record format contain any
fields that allow the null value?

Divide the total number of fields
in the format by 8, round up to the next highest whole byte, then
add to format length.

To override the length of a referenced field
(R in position 29) in a physical file or the length of the field in
a logical file, specify either a new value or a change in length.
To increase the length, specify +n, where n is
the amount of increase. To decrease the length, specify -n,
where n is the amount of decrease. For example, type +4 to indicate
that a numeric field is to be 4 digits longer than the referenced
field. See Positional entries for physical and logical files (positions 1 through 44) for the example
that shows how to override the field length for a physical file.
If
the corresponding field in the physical file record format has a data
type of binary with decimal positions greater than zero, the length
cannot be overridden in the logical file. If the field you are describing
is a concatenation of fields from the associated physical record format,
you cannot specify the length in the logical file. The sum of the
physical field lengths is calculated by the system.
If you specify
a value in positions 30 through 34, your program sees the specified
length. However, the length of the field in the corresponding physical
file field does not change. This can cause data conversion errors.
When attempting to add a member to a file or to open a member of a
file, the operating system might send a mapping error message. The
operating system might also send a mapping error message to your program
in the following cases:
When reading from a logical file that reduces the length specified
in the corresponding physical file

When writing to a logical file that increases the length specified
in the corresponding physical file

For example, if the physical file field is defined as
4 characters long and the logical file field decreases the length
to 2 characters, a value of ABCD in the physical file cannot be read
by the program, although a value of AB can. In this case, the program
can always write successfully. For character fields, the data is left-aligned
and filled with blanks in the physical file field. For numeric fields,
the data is right-aligned and filled with zeros in the physical file
field.
Positions 30 through 34 are valid only for field specifications.
You must leave these positions blank at the key field, select/omit
field, join, record, and file level.
Note: High-level languages
can impose restrictions on the field length. Any length restrictions
should be observed for files used by these high-level languages.