Variables

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Language elements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements

Variables
A variable in an SQL statement specifies a value
that can be changed when the SQL statement is executed.
There are several types of variables used in SQL
statements:
global variable
Global variables are either built-in global variables
or user-defined global variables. For more information about how to
refer to global variables see Global variables.
host variable
Host variables are defined by statements of a host language. For
more information about how to refer to host variables see References to host variables.
transition variable
Transition variables are defined in a trigger and refer to either
the old or new values of columns. For more information about how to
refer to transition variables see CREATE TRIGGER.
SQL variable
SQL variables are defined by an SQL compound statement in an SQL
function, SQL procedure, or trigger. For more information about SQL
variables, see References to SQL parameters and SQL variables.
SQL parameter
SQL parameters are defined in an CREATE FUNCTION (SQL scalar),
CREATE FUNCTION (SQL table), or CREATE PROCEDURE (SQL) statement.
For more information about SQL parameters, see References to SQL parameters and SQL variables.
parameter marker
Variables cannot be referenced in dynamic SQL statements. Parameter
markers are defined in an SQL descriptor and used instead. For more
information about parameter markers, see Parameter
Markers in PREPARE.

Global variables
Global variables are named memory variables that you can
access and modify through SQL statements.
References to host variables
A host variable is a COBOL data item, an RPG field,
or a PLI, REXX,
C++, C, or Java variable that
is referenced in an SQL statement. Host variables are defined by statements
of the host language.
Variables in dynamic SQL
In dynamic SQL statements, parameter markers are used instead
of variables. A parameter marker is a question mark (?) that represents
a position in a dynamic SQL statement where the application will provide
a value; that is, where a variable would be found if the statement
string were a static SQL statement.
References to LOB or XML variables
You can define regular LOB or XML variables,
LOB or XML locator variables, and LOB or XML file reference variables.
References to XML variables
XML variables are defined in host languages as a type of
LOB variable.
Host structures
A host structure is a COBOL group, PL/I, C, or C++
structure, or RPG data structure that is referenced in an SQL statement.
In Java and REXX, there is no
equivalent to a host structure.
Host structure arrays
In PL/I, C++, and C, a host structure array is a structure
name having a dimension attribute. In COBOL, it is a one-dimensional
table. In RPG, it is an occurrence data structure. In ILE RPG, it
can also be a data structure with the keyword DIM.

Parent topic: Language elements