REVOKE (table or view privileges)

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

REVOKE (table or view privileges)
This form of the REVOKE statement removes privileges on
a table or view.
InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared.
AuthorizationThe privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
For each table or view identified in the statement: Every privilege specified in the statement
The system authority of *OBJMGT on the table or view
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the table
or view

Database administrator authority
Security administrator authority

SyntaxREVOKEALLPRIVILEGES,ALTERDELETEINDEXINSERTREFERENCES(,column-name)SELECTUPDATE(,column-name)ONTABLE,table-nameview-nameFROM,USERGROUPauthorization-namePUBLIC
DescriptionALL or ALL PRIVILEGES
Revokes
one or more privileges from each authorization-name. The privileges
revoked are those privileges on the identified tables and views that
were granted to the authorization-names. Note that revoking
ALL PRIVILEGES on a table or view is not the same as revoking the
system authority of *ALL. If you do not use ALL, you must use
one or more of the keywords listed below. Each keyword revokes the
privilege described, but only as it applies to the tables and views
named in the ON clause.

ALTER
Revokes the privilege to alter the
specified table and the privilege to add a comment, add a label, or
create an index on the specified table or view.
DELETE
Revokes the privilege to delete rows
from the specified table or view.
INDEX
Revokes the privilege to create an
index on the specified table.
INSERT
Revokes the privilege to insert rows
in the specified table or view.
REFERENCES
Revokes the privilege to add a referential
constraint in which the table is a parent.
REFERENCES (column-name,…)
Revokes the privilege to add a referential
constraint using the specified column(s) in the parent key. Each column
name must be an unqualified name that identifies a column in each
table identified in the ON clause.
SELECT
Revokes the privilege to use the
SELECT or CREATE VIEW statement.
UPDATE
Revokes the privilege to use the
UPDATE statement.
UPDATE (column-name,…)
Revokes the privilege to update the
specified columns. Each column name must be an unqualified name that
identifies a column in each table identified in the ON clause.
ON table-name or view-name,
…
Identifies
the table or view from which the privileges are revoked. The table-name or view-name must
identify a table or view that exists at the current server, but must
not identify a declared temporary table.
FROM
Identifies from whom the privileges
are revoked. USER
Specifies that the authorization-name identifies a user
profile. If USER is specified, authorization-name cannot be
a group profile.
GROUP
Specifies that the authorization-name identifies a group
profile. If GROUP is specified, authorization-name cannot be
a user profile.
authorization-name,…
Lists one or more authorization
IDs. Do not specify the same authorization-name more
than once.
PUBLIC
Revokes a grant of the privilege
to PUBLIC. For more information, see Authorization, privileges and object ownership.

NotesMultiple
grants: If the same privilege is granted to the same user more
than once, revoking that privilege from that user nullifies all those
grants.
If you revoke a privilege, it nullifies any grant of that
privilege, regardless of who granted it.
Revoking WITH GRANT OPTION: The only way to revoke
the WITH GRANT OPTION is to revoke ALL.
Privilege warning: Revoking a specific privilege
from a user does not necessarily prevent that user from performing
an action that requires that privilege. For example, the user may
still have the privilege through PUBLIC privileges or database administrator authority.
If more than one system authority will be revoked with
an SQL privilege, and any one of the authorities cannot be revoked,
then a warning occurs and no authorities will be revoked for that
privilege.
Corresponding system authorities: When a table
privilege is revoked, the corresponding system authorities are revoked,
except:
When revoking authorities to a table or view, *OBJOPR is revoked
only when *ADD, *DLT, *READ, and *UPD have all been revoked.
When revoking authorities to a view, authorities will not be revoked
from any tables or views referenced in the fullselect of the view
definition.

For information about the system authorities that correspond
to SQL privileges see GRANT (table or view privileges).
Revoking either the INDEX or ALTER privilege, revokes
the system authority *OBJALTER.
ExamplesExample 1: Revoke SELECT
privileges on table EMPLOYEE from user ENGLES.
REVOKE SELECT
ON TABLE EMPLOYEE
FROM ENGLES

Example 2: Revoke update privileges on table EMPLOYEE
previously granted to all users. Note that grants to specific users
are not affected.
REVOKE UPDATE
ON TABLE EMPLOYEE
FROM PUBLIC

Example 3: Revoke all privileges on table EMPLOYEE
from users PELLOW and ANDERSON.
REVOKE ALL
ON TABLE EMPLOYEE
FROM PELLOW, ANDERSON

Example 4: Revoke the privilege to update column_1
in VIEW1 from FRED.
REVOKE UPDATE(column_1)
ON VIEW1
FROM FRED

Parent topic: Statements