Additional considerations for describing display files that contain
DBCS data

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > Double-byte character set considerations for DDS

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > Double-byte character set considerations for DDS

Additional considerations for describing display files that contain
DBCS data

Be aware of these additional considerations when
you describe display files that contain double-byte character set (DBCS) data.

Specify IGCDTA(*YES) on the CRTDSPF command when DBCS data is present
in the file, but not indicated in DDS. For example, specify IGCDTA(*YES) if
the file sends messages that are DBCS (DDS keyword MSGCON).

Prevent users from using display files to insert alphanumeric data into
DBCS database files by specifying the keyboard shift for a field in a field
reference file rather than in a display file. Users cannot type alphanumeric
data in input-capable fields of DBCS display files and, therefore, cannot
type alphanumeric data into the database file. Specify data type J or G
in a database field reference file and R in position 29 of the associated
display file.
Use data type J or G for all fields in a field reference
file to reduce the possibility of incorrectly setting the default keyboard
shift to O (open).

Describe fields in the file as DBCS fields to cause the system to consider
the file to be DBCS even if you do not specify IGCDTA(*YES) on the CRTDSPF
command.

The system displays the DBCS data that does not fit on one display line
onto the next display line with the following effects:
DDS sends a warning message stating that it split DBCS characters for
constant and initialized fields containing DBCS data.

DDS sends a warning message stating that it split DBCS characters if you
specified the J, E, or G data type.

DDS does not send a warning message stating that it split DBCS characters
if you specified the O data type. DDS warns you of the potential for this
problem when the file is created.

The second display line of a continued field might not make sense if the
system must split a DBCS character in order to continue the line.

Text with bracketed-DBCS characters can be used anywhere that comments
and character strings are allowed.

Consider the following rules when you specify subfiles:
Use the SFLMSG keyword to create DBCS messages by typing DBCS data for
the character string in the message. Check the length of the message. The
space available to display it must be long enough to contain the message.
DDS warns you when a display field might be truncated. However, the field
might be truncated in the middle of a DBCS character, and the data displayed
following the truncated character will not make sense.

The system ignores the SFLEND keyword when displaying a plus sign (+)
to indicate that more records exist in the subfile. When displaying the plus
sign, the system writes over a DBCS character.

Consider the following rules when you specify the MSGID
keyword:
If the message text contains DBCS characters, and the message length exceeds
the MSGID field length, the message text is truncated so that it ends with
an alphanumeric character. If the truncation occurs in the middle of a DBCS
character, the text truncates after the previous DBCS character and a shift-in
character is added to the end of the text.

If the message text contains DBCS characters, either define the MSGID
field so that it does not wrap to the next line, or make sure the message
text does not wrap in the middle of a DBCS character.