Table Handling Concepts

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—Data Description Entry > OCCURS Clause > OCCURS Clause

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—Data Description Entry > OCCURS Clause

Table Handling Concepts
A table is a set of logically consecutive items, each of which has the
same data description as the other items in the set. COBOL provides a method
of data reference which makes it possible to refer to all or to part of one
table as an entity.
In COBOL, a table is defined with an OCCURS clause in its data description.
The OCCURS clause specifies that the named item is to be repeated as many
times as stated. The item so named is considered a table element, and its
name and description apply to each repetition (or occurrence) of the item.
Because the occurrences are not given unique data-names, reference to a particular
occurrence can be made only by specifying the data-name of the table element,
together with the occurrence number of the desired item within the element.
The occurrence number is known as a subscript and the technique of supplying
the occurrence number of individual table elements is called subscripting.
Subscripting is described in a subsequent section.
The data-name of the data item containing the OCCURS clause is known as
the subject of the OCCURS clause. When the subject of
an OCCURS clause (or any data-item subordinate to it) is referenced, it must
be subscripted or indexed unless:
The subject of the OCCURS clause is used as the subject of the SEARCH
statement.
The subject (or subordinate data item) is the object of the ASCENDING/DESCENDING
KEY clause.
The subordinate data item is the object of the REDEFINES clause.

When the subject of an OCCURS clause is subscripted or indexed, it represents
one occurrence within the table. Otherwise, the subject represents the entire
table.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension An item whose usage is POINTER or PROCEDURE-POINTER can contain an OCCURS
clause, or be subordinate to an item declared with an OCCURS clause.

Tables containing pointer or procedure-pointer data items are subject to
pointer alignment as defined under Pointer Alignment. Where necessary,
the compiler adds FILLER items to align the pointers in the first element
of the table, plus a FILLER item at the end of the element to align the next
pointer. This continues until all pointers in the table have been aligned.

A boolean, external or internal floating-point, date,
time, or timestamp item can contain an OCCURS clause, or be subordinate to
an item declared with an OCCURS clause.
End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

Parent topic: OCCURS Clause