INDEXED BY Phrase

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—Data Description Entry > OCCURS Clause > OCCURS Clause

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—Data Description Entry > OCCURS Clause

INDEXED BY Phrase
The INDEXED BY phrase specifies the indexes that can be used with this
table. The INDEXED BY phrase is required if indexing is used to refer to
this table element. See Subscripting Using Index-Names (Indexing).
The value of an index is made accessible to a program by storing the value
in an index data-item. Index data-items are described in the program by a
data description entry containing the USAGE IS INDEX clause. The index value
is moved to the index data-item through the SET statement.
Indexes normally are allocated in static memory associated with
the program containing the table. Consequently, indexes are in the last-used
state when a program is re-entered. However, in the following cases, indexes
are allocated on a per-invocation basis. Thus, you must SET the value of the
index on every entry for indexes on tables in the following sections:
Local-Storage Section.
Linkage Section of a program compiled with the RECURSIVE attribute.

INDEXED BY Phrase - Format

    .--------------.   
    V |   
>>-INDEXED--+----+----index-name-1-+---------------------------><
    '-BY-'    

index-name-1
Must follow the rules for formation of user-defined words. At least
one character must be alphabetic.
Each index-name specifies an index to
be created by the compiler for use by the program. These index-names are not
data-names, and are not identified elsewhere in the COBOL program; instead,
they can be regarded as private special registers for the use of this object
program only. As such, they are not data, or part of any data hierarchy; as
such, each must be unique.

If a data item possessing the GLOBAL attribute
includes a table accessed with an index, the index defined for the table also
possess the GLOBAL attribute.

Parent topic: OCCURS Clause