Return Values

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > Procedures and the Program Logic Cycle > Subprocedure Definition > Subprocedure Definition

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > Procedures and the Program Logic Cycle > Subprocedure Definition

Return Values

A procedure that returns a value is essentially a user-defined
function, similar to a built-in function. To define a return value for a subprocedure,
you must

Define the return value on both the prototype and procedure-interface
definitions of the subprocedure.

Code a RETURN operation with an expression that contains the value to be returned.

You define the length and the type of the return value on the procedure-interface
specification (the DCL-PI statement, or the definition specification with PI in positions 24-25).
The following keywords are also allowed:

DATFMT(fmt)

The return value has the date format specified by the keyword.

DIM(N)

The return value is an array with N elements.

LIKE(name)

The return value is defined like the item specified by the keyword.

LIKEDS(name)

The return value is a data structure defined like the data structure
specified by the keyword.

LIKEREC(name{,type})

The return value is a data structure defined like the record
name specified by the keyword.

PROCPTR

The return value is a procedure pointer.

TIMFMT(fmt)

The return value has the time format specified by the keyword.

To return the value to the caller, you must code a RETURN operation
with an expression containing the return value. The operand of the RETURN
operation is subject to the same rules as an expression
with EVAL. The actual returned value has the same role as the left-hand
side of the EVAL expression, while the operand of the RETURN
operation has the same role as the right-hand side. You must ensure
that a RETURN operation is performed if the subprocedure has a return
value defined; otherwise an exception is issued to the caller of the
subprocedure.

Parent topic: Subprocedure Definition