LTRIM

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

LTRIM
The LTRIM function removes any of the specified
characters from the beginning of an expression.
LTRIM(string-expression,trim-expression)
The LTRIM function removes all of the characters
that are contained in trim-expression from the beginning of string-expression.
The collating sequence does not affect the search. If the string-expression is
defined as FOR BIT DATA or is a binary data type, the search is done
by comparing each byte in trim-expression to the byte at the
beginning of string-expression.
string-expression
An expression that returns a value of any built-in numeric, datetime, or string data type. A numeric or datetime argument
is cast to a character string before evaluating the function.1 For
more information about converting numeric or datetime to
a character string, see VARCHAR.
trim-expression
An expression that specifies the characters to remove from the
beginning of string-expression. The expression must return
a value of any built-in numeric, datetime, or string data
type. A numeric or datetime argument is cast to a character
string before evaluating the function.When trim-expression is
not specified, the data type of the string-expression determines
the default value used:Hexadecimal zero (X'00') if the argument is a binary string.
DBCS blank if the argument is a DBCS graphic string.
UTF-16 or UCS-2 blank if the first argument is a Unicode graphic
string.
UTF-8 blank if the first argument is a UTF-8 character string.
Otherwise, a SBCS blank.

The value for string-expression and
the value for trim-expression must have compatible data types.
For more information about data type compatibility, see Assignments and comparisons. If string-expression and trim-expression have
different CCSIDs, trim-expression is converted to the CCSID
of string-expression.
The data type of the result depends on the data type of string-expression:
Data type of string-expression
Data type of the Result

CHAR or VARCHAR
VARCHAR

CLOB
CLOB

GRAPHIC or VARGRAPHIC
VARGRAPHIC

DBCLOB
DBCLOB

BINARY or VARBINARY
VARBINARY

BLOB
BLOB

The length attribute of the result is the same as the
length attribute of string-expression. The
actual length of the result for character or binary strings is the
length of string-expression minus the number of bytes removed.
The actual length of the result for graphic strings is the length
of string-expression minus the number of graphic characters
removed. If all characters are removed, the result is an empty
string.
If either argument can be null, the result
can be null; if any argument is null, the result is the null value.
The CCSID of the result is the same as that of string-expression.
ExamplesExample 1: Use the LTRIM function when the host variable
HELLO is defined as CHAR(9) and has a value of ' Hello'
  VALUES LTRIM(:HELLO)
The
result is 'Hello'. When a trim-expression is
not specified only blanks are removed.
Example 2: Use the LTRIM function to remove individual
numbers in the trim-expression from the beginning (left side)
of the string-expression.SELECT LTRIM ('123DEFG123', '321'),
LTRIM ('12DEFG123', '321'),
LTRIM ('123123222XYZ22', '123'),
LTRIM ('12321', '213'),
LTRIM ('XYX123 ', '321')
FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
The result is: 'DEFG123'
'DEFG123'
'XYZ22'
'' (an empty string - all characters removed)
'XYX123' (no characters removed)
The LTRIM function does
not remove instances of '1', '2', and '3' on the right side of the
string, following characters that are not '1', '2', or '3'.
Example 3: Use the LTRIM function to remove the characters
specified in the trim-expression from the beginning of the string-expression.  VALUES LTRIM(('...$V..$AR', '$.'))
The
result is 'V..$AR'. The function stops when
it encounters a character not in the trim-expression.
Example 4: Use the LTRIM function to remove the characters
specified in the trim-expression from the beginning of the string-expression.  VALUES LTRIM('[[ -78]]', '- []')
The
result is '78]]'. When removing characters
and blanks, you must include a blank in the trim-expression.

Parent topic: Scalar functions

1 The
LTRIM function with one argument returns the same results as: STRIP(string-expression,LEADING)