Object naming rules

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > i5/OS objects > i5/OS objects

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > i5/OS objects

Object naming rules
These rules are used to name all i5/OS® objects
used in control language (CL) commands. The parameter summary table for each
CL command shows whether a simple object name, a qualified name, or a generic
name can be specified.
Naming a Single Object
In the name of a single object, each part (the simple name and the library
qualifier name) can have a maximum of 10 characters.
Naming a User-Created Object
To distinguish a user-created object from an IBM-supplied object, you
should not begin user-created object names with Q because the names of all
IBM-supplied objects (except commands) begin with Q. Although you can use
as many as 10 characters in CL object names, you might need to use fewer characters
to be consistent with the naming rules of the particular high-level language
that you are also using. Also, the high-level language might not allow underscores
in the naming rules. For example, RPG limits file names to eight characters
and does not allow underscores.
Naming a Generic Object
In a generic name, a maximum of nine alphanumeric characters can be used,
not including the asterisk (*) that must immediately follow the last character. INV
and INV* are valid values where a generic name is accepted. When the name
INV is specified, only the object INV is referenced. When the generic name
INV* is specified, objects that begin with INV are referred to, such as INV,
INVOICE, INVENTORY, and INVENPGM1. When the quoted generic name "INV*" is
specified, objects that begin with "INV" are referred to, such as "INV%1"
and "INV>."

Object Library Qualifier Limitations
No library qualifier can be specified with the object name if the object
being created is a library, user profile, line description, controller description,
device description, mode description, class-of-service description, or configuration
list. A library name can never be qualified because a library cannot be placed
in a library. The other object types (*USRPRF, *LIND, *CTLD, *DEVD, *MODD,
*COSD, and *CFGL) appear to be types that exist only in the QSYS library.
When only the name of an object of these object types is accepted, a library
qualifier cannot be specified with the object name. On the Display
Object Description (DSPOBJD) command, where any object name is accepted,
QSYS can be specified.
Library List Qualifiers
The predefined value *LIBL (and others, such as *CURLIB) can be used in
place of a library name in most commands. *LIBL indicates that the libraries
named in the job's library list are used to find the object named in the second
part of the qualified name.
Duplicate Object Names
Duplicate names are not allowed for objects of the same type in the same
library. Two objects with the same name cannot be stored in the same library
unless their object types are different. Two objects named OBJA can be stored
in the library LIBx only if, for example, one of the objects is a program
and the other is a file. The following combinations of names and object types
could all exist on the system at the same time.

If more than one library contains an object with the same name (and both
libraries are in the same library list) and a library qualifier is not specified
with the object name, the first object found by that name is used. Therefore,
when you have multiple objects with the same name, you should specify the
library name with the object name or ensure that the appropriate library occurs
first in the library list. For example, if you are testing and debugging and
choose not to qualify the names, ensure that your test library precedes your
production library in the library list.
Default librariesIn a qualified object name, the
library name is typically optional. If an optional library qualifier is not
specified, the default given in the command's description is used (typically
either *CURLIB or *LIBL). If the named object is being created, the current
library is the default; when the object is created, it is placed either in
the current library or in the QGPL (the general purpose library ) if no current
library is defined. For objects that already exist, *LIBL is the default for
most commands, and the job's library list is used to find the named object.
The system searches all of the libraries currently in the library list until
it finds the object name specified.

Communication names (*CNAME)
A communications name has a restrictive name syntax. It is typically
used to refer to a device configuration object whose name length and valid
character set is limited by one or more communication architectures.
Generic names (*GENERIC)
A generic name is one that contains at least one initial
character that is common to a group of objects, followed by an asterisk.
Names (*NAME)
When you create basic names and basic names in quoted form, follow
these rules.
Path names (*PNAME)
A path name is a character string that can be used
to locate objects in the integrated file system.
Simple names (*SNAME)
Simple names are used for control language (CL)
variables, labels, and keywords to simplify the syntax of CL. Simple names
are the same as unquoted basic names but with one exception: periods (.) cannot
be used.
Additional rules for unique names
Additional rules involve special characters
(as an extra character) for object naming.

Parent topic: i5/OS objects

Related concepts
Naming within commands
Generic object names
Folder and document names

Related reference
CL command names