Completion and diagnostic messages

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Commands used to send messages from a CL program > Commands used to send messages from a CL program

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Commands used to send messages from a CL program

Completion and diagnostic messages
To send diagnostic and completion messages, use the Send
User Message (SNDUSRMSG) command.
You can send these message types to any message queue from your CL procedure
or program. Diagnostic messages tell the calling program or procedure about
errors detected by the CL procedure or program. Completion messages tell the
results of work done by the CL procedure or program.
Normally, an escape message is sent to the message queue of the calling
program or procedure to tell the caller what the problem was or that diagnostic
messages were also sent. For a completion message, an escape message is typically
not sent because the requested function was performed.
For an example of sending a completion message, assume that the system
operator uses the command entry display to call a CL program SAVPAY to save
certain objects. The CL program contains only the following procedure, which
saves the objects and then issues the completion message.
Note: By using the code example, you agree to the terms of the Code license and disclaimer information.
PGM
SAVOBJ OBJ(PAY1 PAY2) LIB(PAYROLL) DEV(TAP01)
SNDPGMMSG MSG('Payroll objects have been saved') MSGTYPE(*COMP)
ENDPGM
If the Save Object (SAVOBJ) command fails, the CL procedure
function checks and the system operator has to display the detailed messages
to locate the specific escape message explaining the reason for the failure.
If the SAVOBJ command completes successfully, the completion message is sent
to the call message queue associated with the program that displays the command
entry display.
One of the advantages of completion messages is their consistency with
IBM-supplied commands. Many IBM® commands send completion messages indicating successful
completion. Seeing the type of message sent to the job log can assist in
problem analysis.

Parent topic: Commands used to send messages from a CL program