Constraints

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Concepts > Tables > Tables

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Concepts > Tables

Constraints
A constraint is a rule that the database manager enforces.
There are three types of constraints:A unique constraint is a rule that forbids duplicate values in
one or more columns within a table. Unique and primary keys are the supported
unique constraints. For example, a unique constraint can be defined on the
supplier identifier in the supplier table to ensure that the same supplier
identifier is not given to two suppliers.
A referential constraint is a logical rule about values in one
or more columns in one or more tables. For example, a set of tables shares
information about a corporation's suppliers. Occasionally, a supplier's ID
changes. You can define a referential constraint stating that the ID of the
supplier in a table must match a supplier ID in the supplier information.
This constraint prevents insert, update, or delete operations that would
otherwise result in missing supplier information.
A check constraint sets restrictions on data added to a specific
table. For example, a check constraint can ensure that the salary level for
an employee is at least $20 000 whenever salary data is added
or updated in a table containing personnel information.

Unique constraints
A unique constraint is the rule that the values
of a key are valid only if they are unique. A key that is constrained
to have unique values is called a unique key. A unique
constraint is enforced by using a unique index. The unique index is
used by the database manager to enforce the uniqueness of the values
of the key during the execution of INSERT and UPDATE statements.
Referential constraints
Referential integrity is the state of a database
in which all values of all foreign keys are valid. A foreign key is
a key that is part of the definition of a referential constraint.
Check constraints
A check constraint is a rule
that specifies which values are allowed in every row of a base table. The
definition of a check constraint contains a search condition that must not
be FALSE for any row of the base table.

Parent topic: Tables