CCSID (Coded Character Set Identifier) keyword

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > Unicode considerations for display files > Keyword considerations for display files that use Unicode data (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > Unicode considerations for display files > Keyword considerations for display files that use Unicode data (positions 45 through 80)

CCSID (Coded Character Set Identifier) keyword

You use this file-, record-, or field-level keyword to
specify that a G-type field supports Unicode data instead of DBCS-graphical
data. Like DBCS-graphic characters, Unicode code units are two bytes
long.

The format of the keyword is: CCSID(Unicode-CCSID | &Unicode-CCSID-field | *REFC
[field-display-length | *MIN | *LEN display-positions])
The
Unicode-CCSID parameter is required. Use the Unicode-CCSID parameter
to specify a CCSID that uses a Unicode encoding scheme for this field.
The Unicode-CCSID parameter can be specified either as a number up
to 5 digits long or as a program-to-system field. You must define
the program-to-system field with a length of 5 and with the S data
type.
A special value of *REFC can be specified instead of a
Unicode-CCSID value. It is valid only on reference fields, and the
referenced field must be coded with a CCSID keyword specifying a Unicode-CCSID
value. Normally, the display file CCSID keyword will override any
CCSID keyword attributes taken from the referenced field. If *REFC
is specified, the Unicode-CCSID value is taken from the referenced
field.
The field-display-length parameter is optional and is
valid only when the CCSID keyword you specify it at the field level.
You specify the field-display-length as the number of Unicode code
units.
When Unicode data is involved in an output operation,
the data is converted from the associated Unicode CCSID to the CCSID
of the device. Generally, the length of the data will change when
this conversion occurs. Therefore, you can use the field-display-length
value to specify a displayed field length that is different from the
default displayed field length. The default displayed field length
of a 'G' data type field is twice the number of code units that are
specified for the field length.
The field-display-length value
can help avoid truncation of field data when the data length will
be longer after conversion than the default displayed field length.
The field-display-length value can also help increase the available
line space by limiting the displayed field length when the data length
will be shorter after conversion. The field length will still be used
to define the field's output buffer length.
For example, a display
file contains the following line: FLD1 10G B 2 2 CCSID(X Y)
X is the Unicode-CCSID associated with the field data. Y is the
field-display-length of this field. If you do not specify Y, then
FLD1's length on the screen is 20 single-byte characters (twice the
number of code units specified on the field length).

If you know that the Unicode data is constructed from single byte
data, then you can specify the field-display-length, Y, as 5 Unicode
code units. FLD1 will have a length of 10 single byte characters on
the screen (twice the number of code units that are specified on the
field-display-length).

If you know that the Unicode data is constructed from double-byte
data, then you can specify the field-display-length, Y, as 11 Unicode
code units. FLD1 will have a length of 22 single byte characters on
the screen. This will allow space for the shift-out and shift-in characters.

A special value, *MIN, can be specified instead of a field-display-length.
This value will be used to specify a field length defined in terms
of display positions. This value causes the field length on the screen
to be equal to the number of Unicode code units defined in the DDS.
A
special value, *LEN, along with a display-positions value can be specified
instead of a field-display-length. This value is used to specify a
field length defined in terms of display positions. This value causes
the field length on the screen to be equal to the display-positions
value.
If the CCSID keyword is specified at both the field-level
and the record- or file-level, the field-level keyword takes precedence.
On
output, field data that is longer than the specified field length
is truncated. On input, if too many characters were entered into the
Unicode field, then the field is reverse imaged and an error appears
on the error line stating too many characters were entered. You need
to press reset and correct the field. The maximum number of characters
to enter is conveyed in the error message.
The CCSID keyword
can be specified with all of the following field level keywords:

ALIAS
AUTO(RA)
BLANKS
CHANGE
COLOR
DFT
DLTCHK
DSPRL
DUP
CHECK(FE)
CHGINPDFT

DFTVAL
DSPATR(BL)
DSPATR(CS)
DSPATR(HI)
DSPATR(MDT)
DSPATR(ND)
DSPATR(PC)
DSPATR(PR)
DSPATR(RI)
DSPATR(UL)
ENTFLDATR

ERRMSG
ERRMSGID
FLDCSRPRG
INDTXT
OVRATR
OVRDTA
PUTRETAIN
REFFLD
SFLCSRPRG
TEXT

Option indicators are not valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how
to specify the CCSID keyword.

|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A CCSID(13488)
00020A R RECORD1
00030A FIELD1 30G
00040A FIELD2 10G CCSID(61952 6)
00050A R RECORD2 CCSID(1200)
00060A FIELD3 20G
00070A R RECORD3
00080A FIELD4 10G CCSID(61952 *MIN)
00090A FIELD6 10G CCSID(1200 *LEN 8)FIELD1
is assigned a CCSID value of 13488. FIELD2 is assigned a CCSID value
of 61952 and has a field length of 6 Unicode code units long (12 SBCS
characters). FIELD3 is assigned a CCSID value of 1200. FIELD4 will
use 10 display positions on the screen. FIELD6 will use 8 display
positions on the screen.