Elementary Moves

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > MOVE Statement > MOVE Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > MOVE Statement

Elementary Moves
An elementary move is one in which the receiving item is an elementary
item, and the sending item is an elementary item or a literal. Any necessary
conversion of data from one form of internal representation to another takes
place during the move, along with any specified editing in, or de-editing
implied by, the receiving item.
De-editing is the logical removal of all editing characters from a numeric-edited
data item in order to determine that item's unedited numeric value.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension De-editing also occurs for items of class date-time. In
this case, all separators, and any conversion specifiers that are not numeric,
are removed from the date-time item, resulting in a numeric value. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension Each elementary item belongs to one of the following categories:
Alphabetic—includes alphabetic data items
and the figurative constant SPACE.
Alphanumeric—includes alphanumeric data items,
nonnumeric literals, and all figurative constants except SPACE. (The figurative
constant ZERO is alphanumeric only when it is moved to an alphanumeric or
alphanumeric-edited item.)
Alphanumeric-edited—includes alphanumeric-edited
data items.
Numeric—includes numeric data items, numeric
literals, and the figurative constant ZERO. (The figurative constant ZERO
is numeric only when it is moved to a numeric or numeric-edited item.)
Numeric-edited—includes numeric-edited data
items.

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Floating-point—includes internal floating-point
items (defined as USAGE COMP-1 or USAGE COMP-2), external floating-point items
(defined as USAGE DISPLAY), and floating-point literals.
Boolean—includes Boolean data items and Boolean
literals.
DBCS—includes DBCS data-items and DBCS literals.
National—includes national data-items
and national literals.
Date-Time—includes date, time,
and timestamp data items of class date-time. Date-time data items are defined
as USAGE DISPLAY or PACKED-DECIMAL.

End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension The following rules outline the execution of valid elementary moves. When
the receiving item is:

Alphabetic

Alphanumeric or Alphanumeric-Edited

Numeric or Numeric-Edited

Floating-Point

Date-Time

Boolean

DBCS or DBCS-Edited

National or national-edited

Valid Elementary Moves

Parent topic: MOVE Statement