Symbols Used in the PICTURE Clause

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—Data Description Entry > PICTURE Clause > PICTURE Clause

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—Data Description Entry > PICTURE Clause

Symbols Used in the PICTURE Clause
The meaning of each PICTURE clause symbol is defined in the following
tables: If the LOCALE phrase is not specified, see Table 1
If the LOCALE phrase is specified, see Table 2

The sequence in which PICTURE clause symbols must be specified
is shown in: Figure 1, if the LOCALE phrase is not
specified
Figure 2, if the LOCALE phrase is
specified.

More detailed explanations of PICTURE clause symbols follow the
figures.
Any punctuation character appearing within the PICTURE character-string
is not considered a punctuation character, but rather a PICTURE character-string
symbol.
If the OPTION parameter value *NOMONOPIC, or the PROCESS statement
option NOMONOPIC is specified, the currency symbol used in the PICTURE
character-string is case sensitive. That is, the lowercase letters
corresponding to the uppercase letters for the PICTURE symbols A,
B, C, D, E, G, N, P, R, S, V, X, and Z are equivalent to their uppercase
representations in a PICTURE character-string. All other lowercase
letters are not equivalent to their corresponding uppercase representations.
If the OPTION parameter value *MONOPIC, or the PROCESS statement
option MONOPIC is specified, all alphabetic characters in a PICTURE
character-string will be converted to uppercase (monocasing).
The meaning of each PICTURE clause symbol is
defined in the following list. Symbol  
Meaning  
A
Alphabetic character or space
B
Space insertion character
P
Decimal scaling position (not counted in size of data item)
S
Operational sign (not counted in size of data item unless a SIGN
clause with optional SEPARATE CHARACTER phrase is specified)
V
Assumed decimal point (not counted in size of data item)
X
Alphanumeric character (any from the EBCDIC set)
Z
Zero suppression character
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension 9 End of IBM Extension
IBM Extension Numeric character End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension 1
Boolean character
0
Zero insertion character
⁄
Slash insertion character
,
Comma insertion character
.
Decimal point or period editing control character
+
Plus sign insertion editing control character
-
Minus sign editing control character
CR
Credit editing control character
DB
Debit editing control character or Check protect insertion character
$
Currency symbol insertion character ($ is default).

Table 1. PICTURE Clause Symbol Meanings
When LOCALE Phrase NOT SpecifiedSymbol
Meaning

A
A character position that can contain
only a letter of the alphabet or a space.

B
A character position into which the
space occupies 1 byte for non-DBCS data and 2 bytes for DBCS data.

E
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Marks
the start of the exponent in an external floating-point item. It occupies
1 byte of storage. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

P
An assumed decimal scaling position.
It is used to specify the location of an assumed decimal point when
the point is not within the number that appears in the data item.
The scaling position character P is not counted in the size of the
data item. Scaling position characters are counted in determining
the maximum number of digit positions (63) in numeric-edited items
or in items that appear as arithmetic operands. The scaling position
character P may appear only as a continuous string of Ps in the leftmost
or rightmost digit positions within a PICTURE character-string. Because
the scaling position character P implies an assumed decimal point
(to the left of the Ps, if the Ps are leftmost PICTURE characters;
to the right of the Ps, if the Ps are rightmost PICTURE characters),
the assumed decimal point symbol, V, is redundant as either the leftmost
or rightmost character within such a PICTURE description. In certain
operations that reference a data item whose PICTURE character-string
contains the symbol P, the algebraic value of the data item is used
rather than the actual character representation of the data item.
This algebraic value assumes the decimal point in the prescribed location
and zero in place of the digit position specified by the symbol P.
The size of the value is the number of digit positions represented
by the PICTURE character-string. These operations are any of the following:
Any operation requiring a numeric sending operand.
A MOVE statement where the sending operand is numeric and its
PICTURE character-string contains the symbol P.
A MOVE statement where the sending operand is numeric-edited and
its PICTURE character-string contains the symbol P and the receiving
operand is numeric or numeric-edited.
A comparison operation where both operands are numeric.

In all other operations the digit positions specified
with the symbol P are ignored and are not counted in the size of the
operand.

S
An indicator of the presence (but
not the representation nor, necessarily, the position) of an operational
sign. It must be written as the leftmost character in the PICTURE
string. An operational sign indicates whether the value of an item
involved in an operation is positive or negative. The symbol S is
not counted in determining the size of the elementary item, unless
an associated SIGN clause specifies the SEPARATE CHARACTER phrase.
Because hardware instructions use signs, you can improve performance by including the S in
picture clauses whenever possible.

V
An indicator of the location of the
assumed decimal point. It may appear only once in
a character string. The V does not represent a character position
and, therefore, is not counted in the size of the elementary item.
When the assumed decimal point is to the right of the rightmost symbol
in the string, the V is redundant.

X
A character position that may contain
any allowable character from the EBCDIC character set.

Z
A leading numeric character position;
when that position contains a zero, the zero is replaced by a space
character. Each Z is counted in the size of the item.

9
A character position that contains
a numeral and is counted in the size of the item.

1
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension A character
position that contains a Boolean value of B"1" or B"0". Usage must
be explicitly or implicitly defined as DISPLAY. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

0
A character position into which the
numeral zero is inserted. Each zero is counted in the size of the
item.

/
A character position into which the
slash character is inserted. Each slash is counted in the size of
the item.

,
A character position into which a
comma is inserted. This character is counted in the size of the item.
If the comma insertion character is the last symbol in the PICTURE
character-string, the PICTURE clause must be the last clause of the
data description entry and must be immediately followed by the separator
period.

.
An editing symbol that represents
the decimal point for alignment purposes. In addition, it represents
a character position into which a period is inserted. This character
is counted in the size of the item. If the period insertion character
is the last symbol in the PICTURE character string, the PICTURE clause
must be the last clause of that data description entry and must be
immediately followed by the separator period. Note: For a given program,
the functions of the period and comma are exchanged if the clause
DECIMAL-POINT IS COMMA is specified in the SPECIAL-NAMES paragraph. In
this exchange, the rules for the period apply to the comma and the
rules for the comma apply to the period wherever they appear in a
PICTURE clause.

  +  
  -  
 CR
 DB

Editing sign control symbols. Each
represents the character position into which the editing sign control
symbol is placed. The symbols are mutually exclusive in one character
string. Each character used in the symbol is counted in determining
the size of the data item.

*
A check protect symbol—a leading
numeric character position into which an asterisk is placed when that
position contains a zero. Each asterisk (*) is counted in the size
of the item.

$
A character position into which a
currency symbol is placed. The currency symbol in a character string
is represented either by the symbol $ or by the single character specified
in the CURRENCY SIGN clause in the SPECIAL-NAMES paragraph of the
Environment Division. The currency symbol is counted in the size of
the item.

G
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension A DBCS
position, occupying two bytes of storage, counting as one character.
It cannot be specified for a non DBCS item. USAGE must be explicitly
defined as DISPLAY-1. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

N
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension If usage is explicitly defined as NATIONAL, a national (UCS-2
or Unicode) character position.
If usage is explicitly defined as DISPLAY-1, a DBCS position that
occupies two bytes of storage counting as one character.
If the USAGE clause is not specified for an elementary item, or
for any group to which the data item belongs, the following rules
apply: If the NATIONAL compiler option is in effect, USAGE NATIONAL is
implied.
Otherwise, USAGE DISPLAY-1 is implied.

End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

Table 2. PICTURE Clause Symbol Meanings
When LOCALE Phrase IS SpecifiedSymbol
Meaning

9
A character position that contains
a numeral and is counted in the number of numerals that may appear
in the edited item.

.
An editing symbol that represents
the decimal point for alignment purposes. If the period insertion
character is the last symbol in the PICTURE character string, the
PICTURE clause must be the last clause of that data description entry
and must be immediately followed by the separator period. The decimal
point character used at runtime is taken from the locale. Note: For
a given program, the functions of the period and comma are exchanged
if the clause DECIMAL-POINT IS COMMA is specified in the SPECIAL-NAMES
paragraph. In this exchange, the rules for the period apply to the
comma and the rules for the comma apply to the period wherever they
appear in a PICTURE clause.

  +

Editing sign control symbol. The
+ indicates that the edited item is to be signed in accordance with
the specified locale. If + is not specified, the edited item will
be unsigned.

cs
The currency symbol in the character
string indicates that the edited item is to include the currency string
associated with the specified locale.

Figure 1 shows the sequence in which
PICTURE clause symbols must be specified if the LOCALE phrase is
not specified. See the notes at the end of the figure. Figure 2 shows the sequence in which PICTURE
clause symbols must be specified if the LOCALE phrase is specified.
Figure 1. PICTURE Clause Symbol Sequence When LOCALE
Phrase NOT Specified
Notes to Figure 1: An X at an intersection indicates that the symbol(s) at the top
of the column may, in a given character-string, appear anywhere to
the left of the symbol(s) at the left of the row.
The $ character, however it is represented in the appropriate
character set, is the default value for the currency symbol.
At least one of the symbols A, X, Z, 9, or *, or at least two
of the symbols +, -, or $ must be present in a PICTURE string.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension The symbols G or N can appear alone in
the PICTURE character-string. End of IBM Extension End of IBM Extension
Nonfloating insertion symbols + and -, floating insertion symbols
Z, *, +, -, and $, and the symbol P appear twice in the above PICTURE
character precedence table. The leftmost column and uppermost row
for each symbol represents its use to the left of the decimal point
position. The second appearance of the symbol in the table represents
its use to the right of the decimal point position. ({ }) indicate
items that are mutually exclusive.
Braces ({}) indicate items that are mutually exclusive.

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Figure 2. PICTURE Clause Symbol Sequence When LOCALE Phrase
Specified
  End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

Parent topic: PICTURE Clause