Record Identifying Indicators

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > RPG IV Indicators > Indicators Defined on RPG IV Specifications > Indicators Defined on RPG IV Specifications

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > RPG IV Indicators > Indicators Defined on RPG IV Specifications

Record Identifying Indicators

A record identifying indicator is defined by an entry in positions
21 and 22 of the input specifications and is set on when the corresponding
record type is selected for processing. That indicator can then be
used to condition certain calculation and output operations. Record
identifying indicators do not have to be assigned in any particular
order.

The valid record identifying indicators are:

01-99

H1-H9

L1-L9

LR

U1-U8

RT

For an externally described file, a record identifying indicator
is optional, but, if you specify it, it follows the same rules as
for a program described file.

Generally, the indicators 01 through 99 are used as record identifying
indicators. However, the control level indicators (L1 through L9)
and the last record indicator (LR) can be used. If L1 through L9 are
specified as record identifying indicators, lower level indicators
are not set on.

When you select a record type for processing, the corresponding
record identifying indicator is set on. All other record identifying
indicators are off except when a file operation code is used at detail
and total calculation time to retrieve records from a file (see below).
The record identifying indicator is set on after the record is selected,
but before the input fields are moved to the input area. The record
identifying indicator for the new record is on during total time for
the old record; therefore, calculations processed at total time using
the fields of the old record cannot be conditioned by the record identifying
indicator of the old record. You can set the indicators off at any
time in the program cycle; they are set off before the next primary
or secondary record is selected.

If you
use a file operation code on the calculation specifications to retrieve
a record, the record identifying indicator is set on as soon as the
record is retrieved from the file. The record identifying indicator
is not set off until the appropriate point in the RPG IV cycle.
(See Figure 1.) Therefore, it is possible to have several
record identifying indicators for the same file, as well as record-not-found
indicators, set on concurrently if several operations are issued to
the same file within the same RPG IV program cycle.

Rules for Assigning Record Identifying Indicators

Parent topic: Indicators Defined on RPG IV Specifications