Assigning a message identifier

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Defining message descriptions > Adding messages to a file > Adding messages to a file

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Defining message descriptions > Adding messages to a file

Assigning a message identifier
The message identifier you specify on the Add Message
Description (ADDMSGD) command is used to refer to the message and
is the name of the message description.
The message identifier must be 7 characters:
pppmmnn
where ppp is the product or application code, mm is
the numeric group code, and nn is the numeric subtype code.
The number specified as mmnn can be used to further divide
a set of product or application messages. Numeric group and subtype codes
consist of decimal numbers 0 through 9 and the characters A through F.
For
example, the following message is 1234 of CPF:
CPF1234
When you create your own messages, using the letter U as the
first character in the product code is a good way to distinguish your messages
from system messages. For example:
USR3567
The first character of the code must be alphabetic, the second
and third characters can be alphanumeric; the group code and the subtype code
must consist of decimal numbers 0 through 9 and the characters A through F.
Note that although this range can be called a set of hexadecimal numbers,
any sorting of the message numerics treats A through F as characters.
For
example, when displaying a range of message descriptions, CPFA000 precedes
CPF1000.
You should be careful when using a numeric subtype code of
00 in the message identifier. If you use a numeric subtype code of 00 for
a message that can be sent as an escape, notify, or status message and that
can, therefore, be monitored, a subtype code of 00 in the Monitor
Message (MONMSG) command causes all messages in the numeric group
to be monitored.

Parent topic: Adding messages to a file

Related tasks
Monitoring for messages in a CL program or procedure

Related information
Add Message Description (ADDMSGD) command