DFNLIN (Define Line) keyword

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Double-byte character set considerations for printer files > Keyword considerations for printer files that use double-byte character set

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Double-byte character set considerations for printer files > Keyword considerations for printer files that use double-byte character set

DFNLIN (Define Line) keyword

You use this record-level keyword to
draw a horizontal or a vertical line.

A horizontal line is drawn at the bottom of the character spaces
from left to right. A vertical line is drawn on the right edge of the character
spaces from top to bottom.
The format of this keyword is:
DFNLIN(direction start_line start_position length)The direction parameter specifies whether the defined line is horizontal
or vertical. The value specified must be one of the following ones:

*VRT

*HRZ

The start line parameter specifies the line number, from the top of
the page, where the defined line starts. The possible values are 1 through
255, but the value specified must not exceed the page length value specified
on the PAGESIZE parameter of the Create Printer File (CRTPRTF) command.
The
start position parameter specifies the position number, from the left margin
of the page, where the defined line starts. The possible values are 1 through
378, but the value specified should not exceed the page width value specified
on the PAGESIZE parameter of the CRTPRTF command.
The length parameter
specifies the length in number of lines when the defined line is vertical
or in number of characters when the defined line is horizontal.
The
length specified must be greater than zero. For a vertical line, the sum of
the length and the value of the start line parameter cannot exceed 255. Although
255 is the maximum value of this sum, valid values must not exceed the page
length specified on the PAGESIZE parameter of the CRTPRTF command.
For
a horizontal line, the sum of the length and the value of the start position
parameter cannot exceed 378. Although 378 is the maximum value of this sum,
valid values must not exceed the page width specified on the PAGESIZE parameter
of the CRTPRTF command.
All parameters are required.
A
warning message is issued at creation time in any of the following situations:

The start line value specified is larger than the page length value specified
on the PAGESIZE parameter of the CRTPRTF command.

The start position value specified is larger than the page width value
specified on the PAGESIZE parameter of the CRTPRTF command.

The sum of the length and the start line value for a vertical line is
larger than the page length specified on the PAGESIZE parameter of the CRTPRTF
command.

The sum of the length and the start position value for a horizontal line
is larger than the page width specified on the PAGESIZE parameter of the CRTPRTF
command.

The DFNLIN keyword can be specified more than once at the record level.
Option
indicators are allowed for this keyword.
The DFNLIN keyword cannot be
specified on a record that also contains keywords that are valid only on IPDS printers
(such as COLOR, BARCODE, and LPI). If DFNLIN is specified with any of those
keywords, a severe error (severity 30) message will be issued.
If the
DFNLIN keyword is specified when a printer file is created with DEVTYPE(*IPDS),
a warning (severity 10) message is issued but the keyword is not ignored at
creation time. However, the keyword is ignored and a message is issued when
the printer file is used.
If the DFNLIN keyword is specified with a
printer file created with DEVTYPE(*AFPDS), the keyword is ignored and a warning
message is issued.

ExampleThe following example shows
how to specify the DFNLIN keyword on the DDS form.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A*
00020A*
00030A R RECORD1 DFNLIN(*HRZ 4 12 20)
00040A DFNLIN(*VRT 5 12 6)
00050A DFNLIN(*HRZ 10 12 20)
00060A DFNLIN(*VRT 5 32 6)
AThe output of RECORD1 format is a box.
The output
of the first DFNLIN keyword is a horizontal line. The line is drawn to the
right from the twelfth character position on the fourth line for a length
of 20 characters.
The output of the second DFNLIN keyword is a vertical
line. The line is drawn down from the twelfth character position on the fifth
line for a length of 6 lines.
The output of the third DFNLIN keyword
is a horizontal line. The line is drawn to the right from the ending point
of the second line (10 = 4 + 6) for a length of 20 characters.
The output
of the fourth DFNLIN keyword is a vertical line. The line is drawn down from
the ending point of the first line (32 = 12 + 20) for a length of 6 lines.