Changing the value of variables

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging ILE programs > Debugging ILE programs

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Debugging CL programs and procedures > Debugging ILE programs

Changing the value of variables
To change the value of a variable, use the EVAL command
with the assignment operator (=).
The scope of the variables used in the EVAL command is defined
by using the QUAL command. However, you do not need to specifically define
the scope of the variables contained in a CL module because they are all of
global scope.
You can use the EVAL debug command to assign numeric,
character, and hexadecimal data to variables provided they match the definition
of the variable.
To change the value of the variable, type the following
on the debug command line:
EVAL variable-name = value
Variable-name is the name of the
variable that you want to change and value is an
identifier or literal value that you want to assign to variable-name.
Look
at the next example:
EVAL &COUNTER = 3.0
The previous example changes the value of &COUNTER;
to 3.0 and shows the following on the message line of the Display Module Source
display:
&COUNTER = 3.0 = 3.0
The result is preceded by the variable-name and value you are
changing.
When you assign values to a character variable, the following
rules apply:
If the length of the source expression is less than the length of the
target expression, the data is left justified in the target expression and
the remaining positions are filled with blanks.
If the length of the source expression is greater than the length of the
target expression, the data is left justified in the target expression and
truncated to the length of the target expression.

Note: DBCS variables can be assigned any of the following:

Another DBCS variable
A graphic literal of the form G'<so>DBCS data<si>'
A hexadecimal literal of the form X'hex digits'

Example: Changing logical variable
To change the value of a logical variable, use
the EVAL debug command.
Examples: Changing character variable
This example changes the value of a character variable using the
EVAL debug command.
Examples: Changing decimal variable
To change the value of a decimal
variable, use the EVAL debug command.

Parent topic: Debugging ILE programs

Related concepts
Debug commands