REPLACE

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

REPLACE
The REPLACE function replaces all occurrences of search-string in source-string with replace-string.
If search-string is not found in source-string, source-string is
returned unchanged.
REPLACE(source-string,search-string,'',replace-string)
source-string
An expression that specifies the source string. The source-string must
be a built-in numeric or string expression. A numeric argument is
cast to a character string before evaluating the function. For more
information about converting numeric to a character string, see VARCHAR.
search-string
An expression that specifies the string to be removed from the
source string. The search-string must be
a built-in numeric or string expression. A numeric argument is cast
to a character string before evaluating the function. For more information
about converting numeric to a character string, see VARCHAR.
replace-string
An expression that specifies the replacement string. The replace-string must
be a built-in numeric or string expression. A numeric argument is
cast to a character string before evaluating the function. For more
information about converting numeric to a character string, see VARCHAR. If replace-string is
an empty string or is not specified, nothing replaces the string that
is removed from the source string.

source-string, search-string,
and replace-string must be compatible. For
more information about data type compatibility, see Assignments and comparisons.
The data type of the result of the function depends on
the data type of the arguments. The result data type is the same as
if the three arguments were concatenated except that the result is
always a varying-length string. For more information see Conversion rules for operations that combine strings.
The length attribute of the result depends on the arguments:
If search-string is variable length,
the length attribute of the result is: (L3 * L1)

If the length attribute of replace-string is
less than or equal to the length attribute of search-string,
the length attribute of the result is the length attribute of source-string
Otherwise, the length attribute of the result is: (L3 * (L1/L2)) + MOD(L1,L2)

where: L1 is the length attribute of source-string
L2 is the length attribute of search-string
L3 is the length attribute of replace-string

If the length attribute of the result exceeds the maximum
for the result data type, an error is returned.
The actual length of the result is the actual length of source-string plus
the number of occurrences of search-string that
exist in source-string multiplied by the
actual length of replace-string minus the
actual length of search-string. If the actual
length of the result string exceeds the maximum for the result data
type, an error is returned.
If any argument can be null, the result can be null; if
any argument is null, the result is the null value.
The CCSID of the result is determined by the CCSID of source-string, search-string,
and replace-string. The resulting CCSID
is the same as if the three arguments were concatenated. For more
information, see Conversion rules for operations that combine strings.
ExamplesReplace all occurrences of the character 'N' in the string 'DINING'
with 'VID'. Use the CHAR function to limit the output to 10 bytes.   SELECT CHAR(REPLACE( 'DINING', 'N', 'VID' ), 10)
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
The result is the string 'DIVIDIVIDG'.  

Replace string 'ABC' in the string 'ABCXYZ' with nothing, which
is the same as removing 'ABC' from the string.   SELECT REPLACE( 'ABCXYZ', 'ABC', '' )
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
The result is the string 'XYZ'.Omitting
the third argument returns the same result.
  SELECT REPLACE( 'ABCXYZ', 'ABC')
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
 

Replace string 'ABC' in the string 'ABCCABCC' with 'AB'. This
example illustrates that the result can still contain the string that
is to be replaced (in this case, 'ABC') because all occurrences of
the string to be replaced are identified prior to any replacement.   SELECT REPLACE( 'ABCCABCC', 'ABC', 'AB' )
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
The result is the string 'ABCABC'.

Parent topic: Scalar functions