REGEXP_REPLACE

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

REGEXP_REPLACE
The REGEXP_REPLACE function returns a modified version
of the source string where occurrences of the regular expression pattern
found in the source string are replaced with the specified replacement
string.
REGEXP_REPLACE(source-string,pattern-expression,replacement-string,start,occurence,flags)
source-string
An expression that specifies the string in which the search is
to take place. The expression must return a value that is a built-in
character string, graphic string, numeric, or datetime data type.
If the value is not a UTF-16 DBCLOB, it is implicitly cast to a UTF-16
DBCLOB before searching for the regular expression pattern. A character
string with the FOR BIT DATA attribute or a binary string is not supported.
The length of a string must not be greater than 1 gigabyte.
pattern-expression
An expression that specifies the regular expression string that
is the pattern for the search. The expression must return a value
that is a built-in character string, graphic string, numeric, or datetime
data type. If the value is not a UTF-16 DBCLOB, it is implicitly cast
to a UTF-16 DBCLOB before searching for the regular expression pattern.
A character string with the FOR BIT DATA attribute or a binary string
is not supported. The length of the string must not be greater than
32K.A valid pattern-expression consists of a set of characters
and control characters that describe the pattern of the search. For
a description of the valid control characters, see Regular expression control characters.

replacement-string
An expression that specifies the replacement string for matching
substrings. The expression must return a value that is a built-in
character string, graphic string, numeric, or datetime data type.
If the value is not a UTF-16 DBCLOB, it is implicitly cast to a UTF-16
DBCLOB before searching for the regular expression pattern. A character
string with the FOR BIT DATA attribute or a binary string is not supported.
The length of the string must not be greater than 32K. If replacement-string is
not specified, the default is the empty string.The content of the replacement-string can
include references to capture group text from the search to use in
the replacement text. These references are of the form '$n' or '\n'33,
where n is the number of the capture group and 0 represents the entire
string that matches the pattern. The value for n must be in the range
0 to 9 and not greater than the number of capture groups in the pattern.
For example, either '$2' or '\2' can be used to refer to the content
found in source-string for the second capture group specified
in pattern-expression. If the replacement-string must
include a literal reference to a '$' or '\' character, then the '\'
character must precede the literal reference so that it appears in
the replacement-string as '\$' or '\\'.

start
An expression that specifies the position within source-string at
which the search is to start. The expression must return a value of
any built-in numeric, character-string, or graphic-string data type.
The argument is cast to INTEGER before evaluating the function. For
more information about converting to INTEGER, see INTEGER or INT. The value of the integer must
be greater than or equal to 1. If the value of the integer is greater
than the actual length of the source-string, the original
string is returned.

occurrence
An expression that specifies which occurrence of the pattern-expression within source-string to
search for and replace. The expression must return a value of any
built-in numeric, character-string, or graphic-string data type. The
argument is cast to INTEGER before evaluating the function. For more
information about converting to INTEGER, see INTEGER or INT. The value of the integer must
be greater than or equal to 0. If occurrence is not specified,
the default value is 0 which indicates that all occurrences of pattern-expression in source-string are
replaced.

flags
An expression that specifies flags that control aspects of the
pattern matching. The expression must return a value that is a built-in
character string or graphic string data type. A character string with
the FOR BIT DATA attribute or a binary string is not supported. The
string can include one or more valid flag values and the combination
of flag values must be valid. An empty string is the same as the value
'c'. For a description of the valid flag characters, see Regular expression flag values.

The result of the function is a string. If there are no
occurrences of the pattern to be replaced and no argument is null,
the original string is returned. The data type of the string is the
same as if the first and third arguments were concatenated except
that the result is always a varying-length string. For more information,
see With the concatenation operator.
The length attribute
of the result data type is determined based on the length attributes
of the source-string and the replacement-string using
the following calculation: MIN(MaxTypeLen, LAS+(LAS+1)*LAR) where
MaxTypeLen is the maximum length attribute for the data type of the
result, LAS is the length attribute for the data type of source-string,
and LAR is the length attribute for the data type of replacement-string.
If replacement-string is not specified, the value for LAR is
0. If the actual length of the result string exceeds the maximum for
the return data type, an error is returned.
The CCSID of the
result is determined by the CCSID of the source-string and
the replacement-string. The resulting CCSID is the same as
if the first and third arguments were concatenated. For more information,
see Rules for result data types.
If any argument of
the REGEXP_REPLACE function can be null, the result can be null. If
any argument is null, the result is the null value.
NotesPrerequisites: In
order to use the REGEXP_REPLACE function, the International Components
for Unicode (ICU) option must be installed
Processing: The
regular expression processing is done using the International Components
for Unicode (ICU) regular expression interface. For more information
see, http://userguide.icu-project.org/strings/regexp.
ExampleReplace the second occurrence of the pattern 'R.d' with 'Orange'
using a case sensitive search.SELECT REGEXP_REPLACE(
'Red Yellow RED Blue Red Green Blue',
'R.d','Orange',1,2,'c')
FROM sysibm.sysdummy1
The result is 'Red Yellow
RED Blue Orange Green Blue'.

Parent topic: Scalar functions