PERCENTILE_DISC

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Aggregate functions > Aggregate functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Aggregate functions

PERCENTILE_DISC
The PERCENTILE_DISC function returns the value that corresponds
to the specified percentile given a sort specification by using a
discrete distribution model.
PERCENTILE_DISC(percentile-expression)WITHIN GROUP(ORDER BYsort-expressionASCDESC)
percentile-expression
Specifies the percentile to be calculated by the function. percentile-expression must
return any built-in numeric, character-string, or graphic-string data
type. If the argument is a character-string or graphic-string, it
is cast to DECFLOAT(34) before evaluating the function. The value
must be between 0 and 1. percentile-expression must not contain
a scalar-fullselect, a column reference, or a user-defined
function reference.
WITHIN GROUP
Specifies that the percentile is to be calculated over the rows
identified in the group.
sort-expression
Specifies the set of values over which to calculate the percentile
as well as the order of the set. sort-expression must return
a built-in numeric, character string, or graphic string data type. ASC
Specifies that the percentile is to be calculated using values
from sort-expression in ascending order.
DESC
Specifies that the percentile is to be calculated using values
from sort-expression in descending order.

The result is the value at the
percentile specified by percentile-expression over the set
of values identified by sort-expression. Each value in the
input set is treated as a discrete value. The calculated percentile
is always a value that appeared in the input set. The data type of
the result is the same as the data type of the result of sort-expression.
If a collating sequence other than *HEX is in effect when
the statement that contains the PERCENTILE_DISC function is executed,
and the sort-expression is SBCS data, mixed data, or Unicode
data, then the result is determined by comparing the weighted values.
The weighted values are derived by applying the collating sequence
to the sort-expression.
The function is applied to the
set of values derived from the argument values by the elimination
of null values.
The result can be null. If percentile-expression is
null or if the function is applied to the empty set, the result is
the null value.
NoteWhen used in an OLAP specification,
only the window-partition-clause can be specified.
Column
masks: If a column that is referenced in the sort-expression of
the PERCENTILE_DISC function is defined to have a column mask, the
column mask is not applied.
ExamplesExample 1: Calculate the median salary as a discrete value
of the employees in department D11.SELECT PERCENTILE_DISC(0.5) WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY SALARY)
FROM EMPLOYEE
WHERE WORKDEPT = 'D11'
The result is 24680.00. There
are 11 employees in department D11. The middle row of a group of 11
values is the sixth row. Since there are an odd number of rows, PERCENTILE_DISC
for the percentile 0.5 returns the value of the sixth row, which is
24680.00.
Example 2: Calculate the median commission as a discrete
value of the employees in department E21.SELECT PERCENTILE_DISC(0.5) WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY COMM)
FROM EMPLOYEE
WHERE WORKDEPT = 'E21'
The result is 1907.00. Since
there are an even number of rows, PERCENTILE_DISC is computed by returning
the first of the two middle rows, which is row three with value 1907.00.

Parent topic: Aggregate functions