INVMMAP (Invoke Medium Map) keyword in printer files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

INVMMAP (Invoke Medium Map) keyword in printer files

You use this record-level keyword to call
a new medium map.

Invoke medium map (IMM) specifies the name of the medium in a
form definition. The medium map in the form definition allows the user to
select or change print parameters, such as input drawer, page rotation, or
overlays.
The format of the keyword is:
INVMMAP(medium-map-name | &medium-map-name-field);The
medium-map-name parameter is required and defines a medium map in the form
definition. This parameter is 8 characters. You can specify the medium map
name as a constant or program-to-system field.
When you specify the
medium-map-name parameter as a program-to-system field, the field must exist
in the same record format as the INVMMAP keyword. It must be defined as length
of 8, data type A (character), and usage P (program-to-system).
This
keyword is valid with DEVTYPE(*AFPDS) and also a form definition must be specified
on the print file. If DEVTYPE is changed to anything other than *AFPDS, the
keyword will be ignored and a warning message will be issued at print time.
The
INVMMAP, SKIP, and SPACE keywords are processed in the following order. If
you specify this keyword at the field level, skipping is performed before
the field prints. SKIPB
SPACEB
INVMMAP
SPACEA
SKIPA
The medium map specified remains in effect for
the remainder of the file unless changed by another INVMMAP keyword.
Option
indicators are valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the INVMMAP keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A
A R RECORD1
A 02 INVMMAP(MAP1)
A R RECORD2 INVMMAP(&MAP)
A MAP 8A P
AIn the example, RECORD1 uses a new medium map (MAP1).
RECORD2 allows the application program to specify the name of medium map by
setting program variable MAP.