Previous-release (*PRV) libraries

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Compiling source programs for a previous release > Compiling source programs for a previous release

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Compiling source programs for a previous release

Previous-release (*PRV) libraries
The CL compiler retrieves information about previous-release commands
and files from CL previous-release (*PRV) libraries.
Two types of libraries contain previous-release support:
system libraries and user libraries. The libraries have the names QSYSVxRxMx
and QUSRVxRxMx. (VxRxMx represents the version, release, and modification
level of the supported previous release). For example, the QUSRV5R4M0 library
supports a system that runs Version 5 Release 4 Modification level 0 of the i5/OS® licensed program.
When the CL compiler compiles for a supported previous release, it first
checks for commands and files in the previous-release libraries. When failing
to find the command or file in the previous-release libraries, the system
performs a search of the library list (*LIBL) or the qualified library.
QSYSVxRxMx Libraries: The QSYSVxRxMx libraries install at the same time
as the CL compiler support for a previous release installs. The QSYSVxRxMx
libraries include the command definition objects and output files (*OUTFILE)
that are found in library QSYS for that particular previous release.
QUSRVxRxMx Libraries: You can create your own QUSRVxRxMx libraries to hold
copies of your commands and files as they existed in the supported previous
release. This is especially important if the commands or files have changed
on the current release.
When the compiler looks for previous-release commands and files, it checks
the QUSRVxRxMx library (if it exists) before checking the QSYSVxRxMx library.
Note: Use the QUSRVxRxMx libraries to hold previous-release user commands
and files, instead of the QSYSVxRxMx libraries. When installing future releases
of the CL compiler, support for previous releases install as well. After the
previous-release support is installed, the QUSRVxRxMx libraries for releases
that are no longer supported can be deleted.
Do not add previous-release libraries to the library list (*LIBL). They
contain commands and files that support earlier releases and cannot run on
the current system. Only the CL compiler refers to and uses the commands and
files in the previous-release libraries. The system commands that are supplied
for a previous release are in the primary language for the system. There are
no secondary national language versions available.
Note: CL programs that are compiled in the System/38 environment cannot be saved
for a previous release.

Parent topic: Compiling source programs for a previous release

Related information
Save Object (SAVOBJ) command
Save Changed Object (SAVCHGOBJ) command
Save Library (SAVLIB) command