Condition for printer files (positions 7 through 16)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Define a printer file > Positional entries for printer files (positions 1 through 44)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Define a printer file > Positional entries for printer files (positions 1 through 44)

Condition for printer files (positions 7 through 16)

You use these positions to specify option indicators
(2-digit numbers from 01 to 99). Then you can have your program set option
indicators on (hexadecimal F1) or off (hexadecimal F0) to select a field or
keyword.

By specifying two to nine indicators that must all be in effect (set off
if N is specified; set on if N is not specified) before the field or the keyword
is selected, you create an AND condition. Note: You must specify the field
or keyword on the same line as the last (or only) set of indicators you specified.

Specify up to nine indicators for each condition and nine conditions for
each field or keyword. A maximum of 81 indicators can be specified for each
keyword when nine indicators are used with nine conditions.

By specifying several conditions for a field or keyword, you create an
OR relationship. If any one of the conditions is satisfied, the field or the
keyword is selected. Note: Conditions within the OR relationship
can consist of one indicator or of several indicators joined by AND. Indicators
can be joined by AND to form a condition; conditions can be joined by OR to
give your program several ways to select the field or the keyword.

Specify the conditions by entering the following values:
Position 7 (AND)

If you need more than three indicators to form an AND condition,
specify them in the same positions on the next line or lines of the DDS form.
Specify A in position 7 on the following lines to designate the continuation
of the AND condition, or leave it blank because A is the default.

Position 7 (OR)

If you specify several conditions that are to
be joined by OR, each condition must start on a new line and each condition
except the first must have an O in position 7. An O specified for the first
condition produces a warning message, and that position is assumed to be blank.

Positions 8, 11, 14 (NOT)

If you want an indicator to be off instead of on to satisfy a condition,
specify N in the position just preceding the indicator (position 8, 11, or
14).

Specifying a condition for more than one field or keyword
in printer filesIf you specify a condition for a field,
the field name (or the constant) and the last (or only) indicator must be
on the same line. If you specify one or more keywords for the field, the condition
applies only to this field, not to the keywords. If the field is not selected
for an output operation, no keywords specified for that field are in effect,
regardless of how the condition for the keywords is specified. For example,
if, in the printer file example in Defining a printer file, indicator
30 is off, SPACEA and UNDERLINE are not in effect.
If you
want to specify a condition for one or more keywords, specify the keywords
and the last (or only) indicator on the same line. If the condition applies
to keywords on multiple lines, keyword continuation must be used for the indicators
to apply to all the keywords.