SFLENTER (Subfile Enter) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

SFLENTER (Subfile Enter) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword on
the subfile-control record format to specify that the Enter key is to be used
as a Page Up key. This allows the IBM® i operating
system to page through a subfile of more than one page when the Enter key
is pressed.

The format of the keyword is: SFLENTER(CAnn | CFnn)
This
optional keyword is valid only for the subfile-control record format.
If a subfile is not currently displayed or you cannot page
through the subfiles displayed (they have one page or less) after you press
the Enter key, control is returned to your program. The parameter value with
this keyword is required. Use it to specify a function key to replace the
Enter key while this function is active. This keyword is normally used when
the subfile is entirely entered by the workstation user or when the user changes
some records in the subfile and adds others.
Option indicators are not
valid for this keyword.
Note: This keyword is in effect only until the
next output operation. At the next output operation, the specifications for
that record apply.
If more than one subfile using SFLENTER is displayed
at the same time, the only CA or CF key in effect as an Enter key is the CA
or CF key specified for SFLENTER on the most recently displayed subfile. The
cursor position at the time the Enter key is pressed determines which subfile
is affected.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the SFLENTER keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R SFLR SFL
00020A*
00030A* (at least one displayable field)
00040A R SFLCTLR SFLCTL(SFLR)
00050A SFLPAG(17)
00060A SFLSIZ(51)
00070A SFLDSP SFLDSPCTL
00080A SFLENTER(CF01)
AThe Enter key is used as a Page Up key. To enter data,
the workstation user presses CF01.