fetch-first-clause

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > subselect > subselect

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > subselect

fetch-first-clause
The fetch-first-clause sets a maximum
number of rows that can be retrieved. It lets the database manager
know that the application does not want to retrieve more than fetch-first-row-count rows,
regardless of how many rows there are in the intermediate result table.
An attempt to fetch beyond fetch-first-row-count rows is handled
the same way as normal end of data.
FETCH FIRSTNEXT1fetch-first-row-countROWROWSONLY
fetch-first-row-count
A numeric constant or variable (except not a global variable)
that specifies the maximum number of rows to retrieve. The numeric
value is cast to BIGINT before processing. The value of fetch-first-row-count must
be positive. It cannot be the null value.

Limiting the result table to a specified number
of rows can improve performance. In some cases, the database manager
will cease processing the query when it has determined the specified
number of rows. If the offset-clause is also
specified with a constant for offset-row-count, the database
manager would also consider the constant offset value in determining
when to cease processing.
Determining a predictable set of rows to retrieve
requires the specification of an ORDER BY clause with sort keys that
uniquely identify the sort order of each row in the intermediate result
table. If the intermediate result table includes duplicate sort keys
for some rows, the order of the rows is not deterministic. If there
is no ORDER BY clause, the intermediate result table is not in a deterministic
order. If the order of the intermediate result table is not deterministic,
the set of rows retrieved is unpredictable.
If both the order-by-clause and fetch-first-clause are
specified, the FETCH FIRST operation is always performed on the ordered
data.
Row access controls can indirectly affect
the FETCH FIRST clause because row access controls affect the rows
that are accessible to the authorization ID of the subselect.
NotesAllowed use of variable: fetch-first-row-count can
be specified as a variable only as part of the outer fullselect of
a DECLARE CURSOR statement or a prepared select-statement.
FIRST
and NEXT: The keywords FIRST and NEXT can be used interchangeably.
The result is unchanged; however, using the keyword NEXT is generally
more readable when using the offset-clause.
Syntax
alternatives: The following are supported for compatibility with
SQL used by other database products. These alternatives are non-standard.
The OFFSET clause and the LIMIT clause can only be specified in the
outermost fullselect of a query.Table 1. Alternative syntax
Equivalent syntax

LIMIT x
FETCH FIRST x ROWS ONLY

LIMIT x OFFSET y
OFFSET y ROWS FETCH FIRST x ROWS
ONLY

LIMIT y, x
OFFSET y ROWS FETCH FIRST x ROWS
ONLY

Parent topic: subselect