Command definition statements

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands > Defining commands

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands

Command definition statements
Command definition allows system users to create additional commands
to meet specific application needs.
These commands are similar to the system commands. The defined
command calls a program to perform some function. Users can define commands
by using command definition statements. The defined command can include the
following:
Keyword notation parameters for passing data to programs
Default values for omitted parameters
Parameter validity checking so the program performing the function will
have correct input
Prompt text for prompting interactive users

Each command on the system has a Command definition object and a command
processing program (CPP).
The CPP is the program called when
the command is entered. Because the system performs validity checking when
the command is entered, the CPP does not always have to check the parameters
passed to it.
The command definition functions can be used to:
Create unique commands needed by system users while keeping a consistent
interface for CL command users.
Define alternative versions of CL commands to meet the requirements of
system users. This function might include having different defaults for parameter
values, or simplifying the commands so that some parameters would not need
to be entered. Constant values can be defined for those parameters. The
IBM-supplied commands should not be changed.

Table 1. Statements for defining CL commandsStatement type
Statement name
Related command
Description

Command
CMD
Command
Definition (CMD) command
Specifies the prompt text
for the command being created. The CMD statement can be anywhere in the source
file that is referred to by the Create Command (CRTCMD) command.
Only one CMD statement can be used in the source file, even if no prompt text
is specified for the created command. Several create option parameters on
the CRTCMD command can also be specified on the CMD statement.

Parameter
PARM
Parameter
Definition (PARM) command
Defines a parameter of a command being created.
A parameter is the means by which a value is passed to the command processing
program (CPP). One PARM statement must be used for each parameter that appears
in the command being defined.

Element
ELEM
Element
Definition (ELEM) command
Used to define the elements of a mixed list
(list elements) parameter on a command. A list parameter is a parameter that
accepts multiple values that are passed together as consecutive values pointed
to by a single keyword.

Qualifier
QUAL
Qualifier
Definition (QUAL) command
Describes one part of a qualified name.
If a name is the allowed value of a parameter or list element defined in a
PARM or ELEM statement, it can be changed to a qualified name by using a QUAL
statement for each qualifier used to qualify the name.

Dependency
DEP
Dependent
Definition (DEP) command
Defines a required relationship between parameters
and parameter values that must be checked. This relationship can refer to
either the specific value of a parameter or parameters or to the required
presence of parameters.

Prompt control
PMTCTL
Prompt
Control Definition (PMTCTL) command
Specifies a condition that is tested to determine
if prompting is done for the parameters whose PARM statement refers to the
PMTCTL statement.

Creating user-defined commands
You can define a command by entering command
definition statements into a source file and running a Create Command
(CRTCMD) command using the source file as input.

Parent topic: Defining commands

Related concepts
CL command delimiters
Simple and qualified object names
CL command coding rules
CL command definition
Naming within commands
Command definition object

Related tasks
Specifying prompt control
Documenting command

Related information
Integrated file system