AT Phrase

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > ACCEPT Statement > Workstation I/O > Workstation I/O

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > ACCEPT Statement > Workstation I/O

AT Phrase
The AT phrase indicates the absolute address on the screen at which the
ACCEPT operation is to start. If the AT phrase is not specified, the ACCEPT
operation starts at line 1, column 2. It does not indicate the starting position
of the leading attribute.
The LINE phrase specifies the line at which the screen item
starts on the screen.
The COLUMN phrase specifies the column at which the screen
item starts on the screen.
COL is an abbreviation for COLUMN.
The LINE and COLUMN phrases can appear in any order.
identifier-2, integer-1
Identifier-2 and integer-1 must be an unsigned numeric integer with
a value greater than or equal to zero and less than 9 digits. If the value
for LINE or COLUMN is negative, the absolute value is taken. Identifier-2
or integer-1 is moved into a PIC 9(3) number.
Identifier-2 cannot be an
internal or external floating-point data item.

Certain combinations of line and column numbers have special meaning:
Until the column comes within range, out of range column values are reduced
by the line length and the line value is incremented. A column number may
cause the line number to be incremented several times.
Out of range line values cause the screen to scroll up one line. The
effect is the same as if the line number of the bottom line had been specified.
The screen is never scrolled more than one line up regardless of the line
specified.
If column and line numbers are both out of range, out of range columns
are handled first followed by out of range lines (according to rules above).
If the line and column numbers given are both zero, the ACCEPT starts
at the position following that where the preceding ACCEPT operation finished.
Column 1 of each line is considered to follow the last column of the previous
line.
If the line number is zero, but a non-zero column number is specified,
the ACCEPT starts at the specified column, on the line following that where
the preceding display operation finished.
If the column number is zero, but a non-zero line number is specified,
the ACCEPT starts on the specified line, at the column following that where
the preceding display operation finished.

identifier-3, integer-2
Identifier-3 must be a PIC 9(4) or a PIC 9(6) field. Identifier-3 cannot
be an internal or external floating-point data item.
Integer-2 must be
a 4- or 6-byte numeric field.

If identifier-3 or integer-2 is 4 digits
long, the first 2 digits specify the line, and the second 2 digits specify
the column. If identifier-3 or integer-2 is 6 digits long, the first 3 digits
specify the line, the second 3 digits specify the column.

Parent topic: Workstation I/O