FETCH

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

FETCH
The FETCH statement positions a cursor on a row of the
result table. It can return zero, one, or multiple rows, and it assigns
the values of the rows returned to variables.
InvocationThis statement
can only be embedded in an application program. It is an executable
statement that cannot be dynamically prepared. Multiple row fetch
is not allowed in a REXX procedure.
AuthorizationSee DECLARE CURSOR for an explanation of the authorization
required to use a cursor.
If a global variable is
specified in the INTO variable list, the privileges held by the authorization
ID of the statement must include at least one of the following:
The WRITE privilege on the global variable.
Database administrator authority

Syntax FETCHNEXTPRIORFIRSTLASTBEFORE1AFTER2CURRENTRELATIVEvariableintegerFROMcursor-namesingle-fetchmultiple-row-fetchsingle-fetchINTO,variableINTOSQLDESCRIPTORLOCALGLOBALSQL-descriptor-nameINTO DESCRIPTORdescriptor-namemultiple-row-fetchFORvariableintegerROWSINTOhost-structure-arrayUSINGSQLDESCRIPTORLOCALGLOBALSQL-descriptor-nameUSING DESCRIPTORdescriptor-nameINTOrow-storage-arearow-storage-area:host-identifier-1INDICATOR:host-identifier-2
DescriptionThe following keywords specify
a new position for the cursor: NEXT, PRIOR, FIRST, LAST, BEFORE, AFTER,
CURRENT, and RELATIVE. Of those keywords, only NEXT may be used for
cursors that have not been declared SCROLL. NEXT
Positions
the cursor on the next row of the result table relative to the current
cursor position. NEXT is the default if no other cursor orientation
is specified.
PRIOR
Positions
the cursor on the previous row of the result table relative to the
current cursor position.
FIRST
Positions
the cursor on the first row of the result table.
LAST
Positions
the cursor on the last row of the result table.
BEFORE
Positions
the cursor before the first row of the result table.
AFTER
Positions
the cursor after the last row of the result table.
CURRENT
Does
not reposition the cursor, but maintains the current cursor position.
If the cursor has been declared as DYNAMIC SCROLL and the current
row has been updated so its place within the sort order of the result
table is changed, an error is returned.
RELATIVE
Variable or integer is
assigned to an integer value k. RELATIVE positions the cursor
to the row in the result table that is either k rows after
the current row if k>0, or k rows before the current
row if k<0. If a variable is specified, it must be
a numeric variable with zero scale and it must not include an indicator
variable. Table 1. Synonymous Scroll
SpecificationsSpecification
Alternative

RELATIVE +1
NEXT

RELATIVE -1
PRIOR

RELATIVE 0
CURRENT

FROM
This keyword is provided for clarity only. If a scroll position
option is specified, then this keyword is required. If no scrolling
option is specified, then the FROM keyword is optional.
cursor-name
Identifies
the cursor to be used in the fetch operation. The cursor-name must
identify a declared cursor as explained in Description for the
DECLARE CURSOR statement or when used in Java™,
an instance of an SQLJ iterator. When the FETCH statement is executed,
the cursor must be in the open state. If a single-fetch or multiple-row-fetch clause
is not specified, no data is returned to the user. However, the cursor
is positioned and a row lock may be acquired. For more information
about locking, see Isolation level.

single-fetchINTO variable,...
Identifies one or more host
structures or variables that must be declared in accordance with the
rules for declaring host structures and variables. In the operational
form of INTO, a host structure is replaced by a reference to each
of its variables. The first value in the result row is assigned to
the first variable in the list, the second value to the second variable,
and so on.A global variable may only be used if the
current connection is a local connection (not a DRDA® connection).

INTO SQL DESCRIPTOR SQL-descriptor-name
Identifies
an SQL descriptor which contains valid descriptions of the output
variables to be used with the FETCH statement. Before the FETCH statement
is executed, a descriptor must be allocated using the ALLOCATE DESCRIPTOR
statement. LOCAL
Specifies the scope of the name of the descriptor to be local
to program invocation.
GLOBAL
Specifies the scope of the name of the descriptor to be global
to the SQL session.
SQL-descriptor-name
Names the SQL descriptor. The name must identify a descriptor
that already exists with the specified scope. See SET DESCRIPTOR for an explanation of the information
in the SQL descriptor.

INTO DESCRIPTOR descriptor-name
Identifies an SQLDA that must
contain a valid description of zero or more variables. Before the
FETCH statement is processed, the user must set the following fields
in the SQLDA. (The rules for REXX are different. For more information see
the Embedded
SQL Programming topic collection.)
SQLN to indicate the number of SQLVAR occurrences provided in
the SQLDA
SQLDABC to indicate the number of bytes of storage allocated for
the SQLDA
SQLD to indicate the number of variables used in the SQLDA when
processing the statement
SQLVAR occurrences to indicate the attributes of the variables

The SQLDA must have enough storage to contain all SQLVAR occurrences.
Therefore, the value in SQLDABC must be greater than or equal to 16
+ SQLN*(80), where 80 is the length of an SQLVAR occurrence. If LOBs
are specified, there must be two SQLVAR entries for each parameter
marker and SQLN must be set to two times the number of parameter markers.
SQLD
must be set to a value greater than or equal to zero and less than
or equal to SQLN. For more information, see SQLDA (SQL descriptor area).
The
USING DESCRIPTOR clause is not supported for a FETCH statement within
a Java program.

multiple-row-fetchFOR variable or integer ROWS
Evaluates variable or integer to
an integral value that represents the number of rows to fetch. If
a variable is specified, it must be a numeric variable with
zero scale and it must not include an indicator variable. It
must not be a global variable. The value must be in the range
of 1 to 32767 and the total size of the rows, excluding
LOBs, must be less than 16M. The cursor is positioned on the
row specified by the orientation keyword (for example, NEXT), and
that row is fetched. Then the next rows are fetched (moving forward
in the table), until either the specified number of rows have been
fetched or the end of the cursor is reached. After the fetch operation,
the cursor is positioned on the last row fetched. For example,
FETCH PRIOR FROM C1 FOR 3 ROWS causes the previous row, the current
row, and the next row to be returned, in that order. The cursor is
positioned on the next row. FETCH RELATIVE -1 FROM C1 FOR 3 ROWS returns
the same result. FETCH FIRST FROM C1 FOR :x ROWS returns the first x rows,
and leaves the cursor positioned on row number x.
When
a multiple-row-fetch is successfully executed, three statement
information items are available in the SQL Diagnostics Area (or the
SQLCA):
ROW_COUNT (or SQLERRD(3) of the SQLCA) shows the number of rows
retrieved.
DB2_ROW_LENGTH (or SQLERRD(4) of the SQLCA) contains the length
of the row retrieved.
DB2_LAST_ROW (or SQLERRD(5) of the SQLCA) contains +100 if the
last row was fetched. 1

INTO host-structure-array
host-structure-array identifies
an array of host structures defined in accordance with the rules for
declaring host structures. The first structure in the array corresponds
to the first row, the second structure in the array corresponds to
the second row, and so on. In addition, the first value in the row
corresponds to the first item in the structure, the second value in
the row corresponds to the second item in the structure, and so on.
The number of rows to be fetched must be less than or equal to the
dimension of the host structure array.

USING SQL DESCRIPTOR SQL-descriptor-name
Identifies an SQL descriptor. LOCAL
Specifies the scope of the name of the descriptor to be local
to program invocation.
GLOBAL
Specifies the scope of the name of the descriptor to be global
to the SQL session.
SQL-descriptor-name
Names the SQL descriptor. The name must identify a descriptor
that already exists with the specified scope. The COUNT field in
the descriptor header must be set to reflect the number of columns
in the result set. The TYPE and DATETIME_INTERVAL_CODE (if applicable)
must be set for each column in the result set.

USING DESCRIPTOR descriptor-name
Identifies an SQLDA that must contain a valid description of zero
or more variables that describe the format of a row in the row-storage-area.
Before the FETCH statement is processed, the user must set the
following fields in the SQLDA:
SQLN to indicate the number of SQLVAR occurrences provided in
the SQLDA.
SQLDABC to indicate the number of bytes of storage allocated for
the SQLDA.
SQLD to indicate the number of variables used in the SQLDA when
processing the statement.
SQLVAR occurrences to indicate the attributes of the variables.

The values of the other fields of the SQLDA (such as SQLNAME)
may not be defined after the FETCH statement is executed and should
not be used.
The SQLDA must have enough storage to contain all
SQLVAR occurrences. Therefore, the value in SQLDABC must be greater
than or equal to 16 + SQLN*(80), where 80 is the length of an SQLVAR
occurrence. If LOBs or distinct types are specified, there must be
two SQLVAR entries for each parameter marker and SQLN must be set
to two times the number of parameter markers.
SQLD must be set
to a value greater than or equal to zero and less than or equal to
SQLN. For more information, see SQLDA (SQL descriptor area).
On
completion of the FETCH, the SQLDATA pointer in the first SQLVAR entry
addresses the returned value for the first column in the allocated
storage in the first row, the SQLDATA pointer in the second SQLVAR
entry addresses the returned value for the second column in the allocated
storage in the first row, and so on. The SQLIND pointer in the first
nullable SQLVAR entry addresses the first indicator value, the SQLIND
pointer in the second nullable SQLVAR entry addresses the second indicator
value, and so on. The SQLDA must be allocated on a 16-byte boundary.

INTO row-storage-area
host-identifier-1 specified
with a variable identifies an allocation of storage in which to return
the rows. The rows are returned into the storage area in the format
described by the SQLDA or SQL descriptor. host-identifier-1 must
be large enough to hold all the rows requested. host-identifier-2 identifies
the optional indicator area. It should be specified if any of the
data types returned are nullable. The indicators are returned as small
integers. host-identifier-2 must be large enough to contain
an indicator for each nullable value for each row to be returned.
The
GET DIAGNOSTICS statement can be used to return the DB2_ROW_LENGTH
which indicates the length of each row returned into the row-storage-area.

The nth variable identified by the INTO clause
or described in the SQLDA corresponds to the nth column of
the result table of the cursor. The data type of each variable must
be compatible with its corresponding column.
Each assignment to a variable is made according to the
retrieval assignment rules described in Retrieval assignment.2 If the number
of variables is less than the number of values in the row, the SQLSTATE
is set to '01503' (or the SQLWARN3 field of the SQLCA is set to 'W').
Note that there is no warning if there are more variables than the
number of result columns. If the value is null, an indicator variable
must be provided. If an assignment error occurs, the value is not
assigned to the variable, and no more values are assigned to variables.
Any values that have already been assigned to variables remain assigned.
If an error occurs as the result of an arithmetic expression
in the SELECT list of an outer SELECT statement (division by zero,
overflow, etc.) or a character conversion error occurs, the result
is the null value. As in any other case of a null value, an indicator
variable must be provided. The value of the variable is undefined.
In this case, however, the indicator variable is set to -2. Processing
of the statement continues as if the error had not occurred. (However,
a warning is returned.) If you do not provide an indicator variable,
an error is returned. It is possible that some values have already
been assigned to variables and will remain assigned when the error
occurs.
multiple-row-fetch is not allowed if any of the
result columns are LOBs or if the current connection is to a remote
server.
NotesCursor
position: An open cursor has three possible positions:
Before a row
On a row
After the last row

If a cursor is positioned on a row, that row is called
the current row of the cursor. A cursor referenced in an UPDATE or
DELETE statement must be positioned on a row. A cursor can only be
positioned on a row as a result of a FETCH statement.
It is possible for an error to occur that makes the state
of the cursor unpredictable.
Variable assignment: The nth
variable identified by the INTO clause or described in the SQLDA corresponds
to the nth column of the result table of the cursor. The data
type of each variable must be compatible with its corresponding column.
Each
assignment to a variable is made according to the Retrieval Assignment
rules described in Assignments and comparisons. If the number
of variables is less than the number of values in the row, the SQLWARN3
field of the SQLCA is set to 'W'. Note that there is no warning if
there are more variables than the number of result columns. If the
value is null, an indicator variable must be provided. If an assignment
error occurs, the values in the variables are unpredictable.
If
the specified variable is a string and is not large enough to contain
the result, a warning (SQLSTATE 01004) is returned (and 'W' is assigned
to SQLWARN1 in the SQLCA). The actual length of the result is returned
in the indicator variable associated with the variable, if
an indicator variable is provided.
If the specified variable is a C NUL-terminated variable
and is not large enough to contain the result and the NUL-terminator:
If the *CNULRQD option is specified on the CRTSQLCI or CRTSQLCPPI
command (or CNULRQD(*YES) on the SET OPTION statement), the following
occurs: The result is truncated.
The last character is the NUL-terminator.
A warning (SQLSTATE 01004) is returned (and 'W' is assigned to
SQLWARN1 in the SQLCA).

If the *NOCNULRQD option on the CRTSQLCI or CRTSQLCPPI command
(or CNULRQD(*NO) on the SET OPTION statement) is specified, the following
occurs: The NUL-terminator is not returned.
A warning (SQLSTATE 01004) is returned (and 'N' is assigned to
SQLWARN1 in the SQLCA).

Syntax alternatives: The following keywords are
synonyms supported for compatibility to prior releases. These keywords
are non-standard and should not be used:
USING DESCRIPTOR may be used as a synonym for INTO DESCRIPTOR
in the single-fetch-clause.

ExampleExample 1:  In this C example,
the FETCH statement fetches the results of the SELECT statement into
the program variables dnum, dname,
and mnum. When no more rows remain to be fetched,
the not found condition is returned.
EXEC SQL DECLARE C1 CURSOR FOR
SELECT DEPTNO, DEPTNAME, MGRNO FROM TDEPT
WHERE ADMRDEPT = 'A00';
EXEC SQL OPEN C1;
while (SQLCODE==0) {
EXEC SQL FETCH C1 INTO :dnum, :dname, :mnum;
}
EXEC SQL CLOSE C1;

Example 2:  This FETCH statement uses an SQLDA.
FETCH CURS USING DESCRIPTOR :sqlda3

Parent topic: Statements

1 If the number of rows returned is equal
to the number of rows requested, then an end of data warning may not
occur and DB2_LAST_ROW (or SQLERRD(5) of the SQLCA) may not contain
+100.2 If assigning
to an SQL-variable or SQL-parameter and the standards option is specified,
storage assignment rules apply. For information on the standards option,
see Standards compliance.