Evaluating Conditional Expressions

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Overview > Conditional Expressions > Complex Conditions > Combined Conditions > Combined Conditions

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Overview > Conditional Expressions > Complex Conditions > Combined Conditions

Evaluating Conditional Expressions
If parentheses are used, logical evaluation of combined conditions proceeds
in the following order:
Conditions within parentheses are evaluated first.
Within nested parentheses, evaluation proceeds from the least inclusive
condition to the most inclusive condition.

If parentheses are not used (or are not at the same level of inclusiveness),
the combined condition is evaluated in the following order:
Arithmetic expressions.
Simple-conditions in the following order:
Relation
Class
Condition-name
Switch-status
Sign.

Negated simple-conditions in the same order as item 2.
Combined conditions, in the following order:
AND
OR.

Negated combined conditions in the following order:
AND
OR.

Consecutive operands at the same evaluation-order level are evaluated
from left to right. However, the truth value of a combined condition can
sometimes be determined without evaluating the truth value of all the component
conditions.

The component conditions of a combined condition are evaluated from left
to right. If the truth value of one condition is not affected by the evaluation
of further elements of the combined condition, these elements are not evaluated.
However, the truth value of the condition will always be the same (as if the
condition had been evaluated in full), as described earlier in this paragraph.
Values are established for arithmetic expressions and functions if and
when the conditions containing them are evaluated. Similarly, negated conditions
are evaluated if and when it is necessary to evaluate the complex condition
that they represent.
For example:
   NOT A IS GREATER THAN B OR A + B IS EQUAL
        TO C AND D IS POSITIVE

is evaluated as if parenthesized as follows:
   (NOT (A IS GREATER THAN B)) OR (((A+B) IS EQUAL
       TO C) AND (D IS POSITIVE))

The order of evaluation in this example is as follows:
(NOT (A IS GREATER THAN B)) is evaluated. If true, the rest
of the condition is not evaluated, as the expression is true.
(A+B) is evaluated, giving some intermediate result, x.
(x IS EQUAL TO C) is evaluated. If false, the rest of the condition
is not evaluated, as the expression is false.
(D IS POSITIVE) is evaluated, giving the final truth value
of the expression.

Parent topic: Combined Conditions