POSSTR

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

POSSTR
The POSSTR function returns the starting position of the
first occurrence of one string (called the search-string)
within another string (called the source-string).
If the search-string is not found and neither argument is null,
the result is zero. If the search-string is found, the result
is a number from 1 to the actual length of the source-string.
POSSTR(source-string,search-string)
See the related functions, LOCATE and POSITION.
source-string
An expression that specifies the source string in which the search
is to take place. source-string may be any
built-in numeric, datetime, or string expression.
A numeric or datetime argument is cast to a character
string before evaluating the function. For more information about
converting numeric and datetime to a character
string, see VARCHAR.
search-string
An expression that specifies the string that is to be searched
for. search-string may be any built-in numeric, datetime, or string expression. It must be compatible
with the source-string. A numeric or datetime argument
is cast to a character string before evaluating the function. For
more information about converting numeric and datetime to
a character string, see VARCHAR.

The result of the function is a large integer. If either
of the arguments can be null, the result can be null. If either of
the arguments is null, the result is the null value.
The POSSTR function accepts mixed data strings. However,
POSSTR operates on a strict byte-count basis without regard to single-byte
or double-byte characters.1 It
is recommended that if either the search-string or source-string contains
mixed data, POSITION should be used instead of POSSTR. The POSITION
function operates on a character basis. In an EBCDIC encoding scheme,
any shift-in and shift-out characters are not required to be in exactly
the same position, and their only significance is to indicate which
characters are SBCS and which characters are DBCS.
If the CCSID of the search-string is
different than the CCSID of the source-string,
it is converted to the CCSID of the source-string.
If the CCSID of the source-string is mixed
data or UTF-8, CCSID conversion to UTF-16 will occur.
If a collating sequence other than *HEX is in effect when
the statement that contains the POSSTR function is executed and the
arguments are SBCS data, mixed data, or Unicode data, then the result
is obtained by comparing weighted values for each value in the set.
The weighted values are based on the collating sequence. An ICU collating
sequence table cannot be specified with the POSSTR function.
If the search-string has a length
of zero, the result returned by the function is 1. Otherwise:
if the source-string has a length of
zero, the result returned by the function is 0.
Otherwise, If the value of search-string is equal
to an identical length of substring of contiguous positions within
the value of source-string, then the result
returned by the function is the starting position of the first such
substring within the source-string value.
Otherwise, the result returned by the function is 0.2

ExampleSelect RECEIVED and SUBJECT columns as well as the starting position
of the words 'GOOD' within the NOTE_TEXT column for all entries in
the IN_TRAY table that contain these words.   SELECT RECEIVED, SUBJECT, POSSTR(NOTE_TEXT, 'GOOD')
    FROM IN_TRAY
    WHERE POSSTR(NOTE_TEXT, 'GOOD') <> 0

Parent topic: Scalar functions

1 For example, in an EBCDIC encoding scheme,
if the source-string contains mixed data, the search-string will
only be found if any shift-in and shift-out characters are also found
in the source-string in exactly the same positions.2 This includes
the case where the search-string is longer
than the source-string.