LOCALE Phrase

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—Data Description Entry > PICTURE Clause > PICTURE Clause

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—Data Description Entry > PICTURE Clause

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension
LOCALE Phrase
When the LOCALE phrase is specified in the PICTURE clause, editing is carried
out according to the locale specifications. The following rules apply:
A BLANK WHEN ZERO clause takes precedence over locale editing.
When mnemonic-name-1 is specified, the locale used for editing and de-editing
the item is the one associated with mnemonic-name-1 in the SPECIAL-NAMES paragraph.
Otherwise the current locale is used.
Note: Switching locales between
the editing and de-editing stages of an item can cause unpredictable results.
You must ensure that the locale used for editing an item is the same as the
locale used for de-editing an item.

If a currency sign symbol (cs) is specified in the picture string, the
position, length, and character-string used for the currency sign are determined
from the locale.
The decimal separator, thousands separator, and grouping are determined
by the locale.
Decimal point alignment and zero replacement take place as described in Alignment Rules.
If + is specified in the PICTURE character string, the way in which positive
and negative numbers are represented is determined by a locale.
The sending data is aligned on the decimal point, and (if necessary) truncated
or padded with zeros at either end within the receiving character positions
of the receiving data item. The data is also right-justified, with grouping
and separators applied according to the locale specification. Leading zeros
are replaced by blanks.

If, after formatting, the number of digit positions specified in the PICTURE
character string do not fit into the receiving item, and there are excess
digits in the sending item, digits are truncated on the left and an operating
system escape message is issued.

Parent topic: PICTURE Clause

End of IBM Extension End of IBM Extension