Creating a message file

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Defining message descriptions > Defining message descriptions

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Defining message descriptions

Creating a message file
To create your own predefined messages, you must first create the
message file into which the messages are to be placed.
Use the Create Message File (CRTMSGF) command
to create the message file. You then use the Add Message Description
(ADDMSGD) command to describe your messages and place them in the
message file.
On the Create Message File (CRTMSGF) command,
you can specify the maximum size in kilobytes on the SIZE parameter. The
following formula can be used to determine the maximum:
S + (I x N)
where the following variables are true:
S
Is the initial amount of storage
I
Is the amount of storage to add each time
N
Is the number of times to add storage

The default for S is 10, for
I is 2, and for N is *NOMAX.
For example, you specify S as
5, I as 1, and N as 2. When the file reaches the initial storage amount of
5KB, the system automatically adds another 1KB to the initial storage. The
amount added (1KB) can be added to the storage two times to make the total
maximum of 7KB. If you specify *NOMAX as N, the maximum size of the message
file is 16MB.
When you specify a maximum size for a message file and
the message file becomes full, you cannot change the size of the message file.
You then need to create another message file and re-create the messages in
the new file. The Merge Message File (MRGMSGF) command
can be used to copy message descriptions from one message file to another.
Because you will want to avoid this step, it is important to calculate the
size needed for your message file when you create it, or specify *NOMAX.

Message files in independent ASPs
Message files can be created in an independent auxiliary storage pool (ASP), but this is not recommended because the independent ASP can be taken offline. This would prevent messages in job logs and message queues from being displayed correctly if the independent ASP is offline.
Determining the size of a message file
To determine the size of a message file, you
need to use this formula. The Add Message Description (ADDMSGD) command
parameters are given in parentheses.

Parent topic: Defining message descriptions

Related information
CL command finder
Add Message Description (ADDMSGD) command
Create Message File (CRTMSGF) command