Rules for Assigning Field Indicators

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > RPG IV Indicators > Indicators Defined on RPG IV Specifications > Field Indicators > Field Indicators

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > RPG IV Indicators > Indicators Defined on RPG IV Specifications > Field Indicators

Rules for Assigning Field Indicators

When you assign field indicators, remember the following:

Indicators for plus, minus, zero, or blank are set off at the
beginning of the program. They are not set on until the condition
(plus, minus, zero, or blank) is satisfied by the field being tested
on the record just read.

Field indicators cannot be used with entire arrays or with look-ahead
fields. However, an entry can be made for an array element. Field
indicators are allowed for null-capable fields only if ALWNULL(*USRCTL)
is used.

A numeric input field can be assigned
two or three field indicators. However, only the indicator that signals
the result of the test on that field is set on; the others are set
off.

If the same field indicator is assigned to fields in different
record types, its state (on or off) is always based on the last record
type selected.

When different field indicators are assigned to fields in different
record types, a field indicator remains on until another record of
that type is read. Similarly, a field indicator assigned to more
than one field within a single record type always reflects the status
of the last field defined.

The same field indicator can be specified as a field indicator
on another input specification, as a resulting indicator, as a record
identifying indicator, or as a field record relation indicator. No
diagnostic message is issued, but this use of indicators could cause
erroneous results, especially when match fields or level control is
involved.

If the same indicator is specified in all three positions, the
indicator is always set on when the record containing this field is
selected.

Parent topic: Field Indicators