EXPORT{(external_name)}

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Definition Specifications > Definition-Specification Keywords > Definition-Specification Keywords

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Definition Specifications > Definition-Specification Keywords

EXPORT{(external_name)}

The specification of the EXPORT keyword allows a globally defined data
structure or standalone field defined within a module to be used by another
module in the program. The storage for the data item is allocated in the module
containing the EXPORT definition. The external_name parameter, if specified,
must be a character literal or constant.

In a free-form definition, you can specify *DCLCASE
for the external_name parameter,
indicating that the external name
of the item is the
same as the name of the item, in the same case as the name
is specified.
See Specifying *DCLCASE as the External Name.

The EXPORT keyword on the definition specification is used to export data
items and cannot be used to export procedure names. To export a procedure
name, use the EXPORT keyword on the procedure specification.

Note: The initialization for the storage occurs when the program
entry procedure (of the program containing the module) is first called. RPG
IV will not do any further initialization on this storage, even if the procedure
ended with LR on, or ended abnormally on the previous call.

The following restrictions apply when EXPORT is specified:

Only one module may define the data item as exported

You cannot export a field that is specified in the Result-Field entry
of a PARM in the *ENTRY PLIST

Unnamed data structures cannot be exported

BASED data items cannot be exported

The same external field name cannot be specified more than once per module
and also cannot be used as an external procedure name

IMPORT and EXPORT cannot both be specified for the same data item.

For a multiple-occurrence data structure or table, each module will contain
its own copy of the occurrence number or table index. An OCCUR or LOOKUP operation
in any module will have only a local impact since the occurrence number or
index is local to each module.

See also IMPORT{(external_name)}.

Tip:
The keywords IMPORT and EXPORT allow you to define a "hidden" interface
between modules. As a result, use of these keywords should be limited only
to those data items which are global throughout the application. It is also
suggested that this global data be limited to things like global attributes
which are set once and never modified elsewhere.

Parent topic: Definition-Specification Keywords