Aggregate functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Built-in functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions

Aggregate functions
An aggregate function takes a set of values (like a column
of data) and returns a single value result from the set of values.
The following information applies to all aggregate functions
other than COUNT(*) and COUNT_BIG(*).
The argument of an aggregate function is a set of values derived
from an expression. The expression may include columns but cannot
include another aggregate function. The scope of the set is a group
or an intermediate result table as explained in Chapter 6, "Queries".
If a GROUP BY clause is specified in a query and the intermediate
result of the FROM, WHERE, GROUP BY, and HAVING clauses is an empty result table, then the aggregate functions
are not applied and the result of the query is an
empty table.
If a GROUP BY clause is not specified in a query and the intermediate
result of the FROM, WHERE, and HAVING clauses is an
empty result table, then the aggregate functions are applied
to the empty result table. For example, the result
of the following SELECT statement is applied to an
empty result table because department D01 has no employees:   SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT JOB)
    FROM EMPLOYEE
    WHERE WORKDEPT = 'D01'

The keyword DISTINCT is not considered an argument of the function,
but rather a specification of an operation that is performed before
the function is applied. If DISTINCT is specified, redundant duplicate
values are eliminated. If ALL is implicitly or explicitly specified,
redundant duplicate values are not eliminated.When interpreting
the DISTINCT clause for decimal floating-point values that are numerically
equal, the number of significant digits in the value is not considered.
For example, the decimal floating-point number 123.00 is not distinct
from the decimal floating-point number 123. The representation of
the number returned from the query will be any one of the representations
encountered (for example, either 123.00 or 123).

An aggregate function can be used in a WHERE clause only if that
clause is part of a subquery of a HAVING clause and the column name
specified in the expression is a correlated reference to a group.
If the expression includes more than one column name, each column
name must be a correlated reference to the same group.

ARRAY_AGG
The ARRAY_AGG function aggregates a set of elements into
an array.
AVG
The AVG function returns the average of a set of numbers.
CORRELATION
The CORRELATION function returns the coefficient of correlation
of a set of number pairs.
COUNT
The COUNT function returns the number of rows or values
in a set of rows or values.
COUNT_BIG
The COUNT_BIG function returns the number of rows or values
in a set of rows or values. It is similar to COUNT except that the
result can be greater than the maximum value of integer.
COVARIANCE
The COVARIANCE function returns the (population) covariance
of a set of number pairs.
COVARIANCE_SAMP
The COVARIANCE_SAMP function returns the unbiased sample
covariance (n-1) of a set of number pairs.
GROUPING
Used in conjunction with grouping-sets and super-groups,
the GROUPING aggregate function returns a value that indicates whether
a row returned in a GROUP BY answer set is a row generated by a grouping
set that excludes the column represented by expression.
LISTAGG
The LISTAGG function aggregates a set of string elements
into one string by concatenating the strings. Optionally, a separator
string can be provided which is inserted between contiguous input
strings.
MAX
The MAX aggregate function returns the maximum value in
a set of values in a group.
MEDIAN
The MEDIAN function returns the median of a set of numbers.
MIN
The MIN aggregate function returns the minimum value in
a set of values in a group.
PERCENTILE_CONT
The PERCENTILE_CONT function returns the value that corresponds
to the specified percentile given a sort specification by using a
continuous distribution model.
PERCENTILE_DISC
The PERCENTILE_DISC function returns the value that corresponds
to the specified percentile given a sort specification by using a
discrete distribution model.
Regression functions
The regression functions support the fitting of an ordinary-least-squares
regression line of the form y = a * x + b to a set of number pairs.
The first element of each pair (expression1) is interpreted
as a value of the dependent variable (that is, a "y value"). The second
element of each pair (expression2 ) is interpreted as a value
of the independent variable (that is, an "x value").
STDDEV_POP or STDDEV
The STDDEV_POP function returns the biased standard deviation
(/n) of a set of numbers.
STDDEV_SAMP
The STDDEV_SAMP function returns the sample standard deviation
(/n-1) of a set of numbers.
SUM
The SUM function returns the sum of a set of numbers.
VAR_POP or VARIANCE or VAR
The VAR_POP function returns the biased variance (/n) of
a set of numbers.
VARIANCE_SAMP or VAR_SAMP
The VAR_SAMP function returns the sample variance (/n-1)
of a set of numbers.
XMLAGG
The XMLAGG function returns an XML sequence containing
an item for each non-null value in a set of XML values.
XMLGROUP
The XMLGROUP function returns an XML value that is a well-formed XML
document.

Parent topic: Built-in functions