Remote unit of work

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Concepts > Distributed relational database > Distributed relational database

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Concepts > Distributed relational database

Remote unit of work
The remote unit of work facility provides for the
remote preparation and execution of SQL statements. An activation
group at computer system A can connect to an application server at
computer system B. Then, within one or more units of work, that activation
group can execute any number of static or dynamic SQL statements that
reference objects at B. After ending a unit of work at B, the activation
group can connect to an application server at computer system C, and
so on.
Most SQL statements can be remotely prepared and executed with
the following restrictions:
All objects referenced in a single SQL statement must be managed
by the same application server.
All of the SQL statements in a unit of work must be executed by
the same application server.

Remote unit of work connection managementAn activation
group is in one of three states at any time:
Connectable and connected
Unconnectable and connected
Connectable and unconnected

The following diagram shows the state transitions:
Figure 1. Remote Unit of Work Activation Group Connection
State Transition
The initial state of an activation group is connectable and connected.
The connectable and connected stateAn activation
group is connected to an application server and CONNECT statements
can be executed. The activation group enters this state when it completes
a rollback or successful commit from the unconnectable and connected
state, or a CONNECT statement is successfully executed from the connectable
and unconnected state.
The unconnectable and connected stateAn
activation group is connected to an application server, but a CONNECT
statement cannot be successfully executed to change application servers.
The activation group enters this state from the connectable and connected
state when it executes any SQL statement other than CONNECT, COMMIT,
or ROLLBACK.
The connectable and unconnected stateAn
activation group is not connected to an application server. The only
SQL statement that can be executed is CONNECT.
The activation
group enters this state when:
The connection was previously released and a successful COMMIT
is executed.
The connection is disconnected using the SQL DISCONNECT statement.
The connection was in a connectable state, but the CONNECT statement
was unsuccessful.

Consecutive
CONNECT statements can be executed successfully because CONNECT does
not remove the activation group from the connectable state. A CONNECT
to the application server to which the activation group is currently
connected is executed like any other CONNECT statement. CONNECT cannot
execute successfully when it is preceded by any SQL statement other
than CONNECT, COMMIT, DISCONNECT, SET CONNECTION, RELEASE, or ROLLBACK
(unless running with COMMIT(*NC)). To avoid an error, execute a commit
or rollback operation before a CONNECT statement is executed.

Parent topic: Distributed relational database