Writing request-processor procedures and programs

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Receiving messages into a CL procedure or program > Receiving messages into a CL procedure or program

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Receiving messages into a CL procedure or program

Writing request-processor procedures and programs
To become a request-processing procedure or program,
your procedure or program must send and receive a request message and not
remove the request message. The Send Program Message (SNDPGMMSG) and Receive
Message (RCVMSG) commands can make your procedure or program become
a request processor.
Specifying a CL procedure as a request processor within a program
has many advantages. The following list specifies three advantages:
Processes request messages as described in Receiving request messages.
Allows the use of the End Request (ENDRQS) command,
which can be used from the System Request menu or as part of the disconnect
job function.
Allows filtering of messages to occur.

For example, the following commands make a procedure
or program become a request processor:
SNDPGMMSG MSG('Request Message') TOPGMQ(*EXT) MSGTYPE(*RQS)
RCVMSG PGMQ(*EXT) MSGTYPE(*RQS) RMV(*NO)
The request message is received from PGMQ *EXT. When any request
message is received, it is moved (actually, it is removed and resent) to the
call message queue of the procedure or program that specified the RCVMSG command.
Therefore, the correct call message queue must be used later when the message
is removed.
If the request message is removed using the message reference
key (MRK), you should obtain the MRK from the KEYVAR keyword of the RCVMSG command
and not the SNDPGMMSG command. (The MRK changes when receiving
a request message because the request is moved to a different call message
queue.) You must specify RMV(*NO) on the RCVMSG command
because the procedure or program is not a request processor if the request
message is removed from the call message queue.
The procedure or program
is identified as a request processor when the request message is received.
While the procedure or program is a request processor, other called procedures
or programs can be ended using option 2 (End request) on the System Request
menu. The request-processor procedure or program should include a monitor
for message CPF1907 (Monitor Message (MONMSG) command).
This is necessary because the end request function (from either option 2 on
the System Request menu or the End Request command) sends this message to
the request processor.
The procedure or program remains a request processor
until the procedure ends (either normally or abnormally) or until a RCVMSG command
is run to remove all the request messages from the request-processor's call
message queue. For example, the following command removes all request messages
from the message queue and, therefore, ends request processing:
RMVMSG CLEAR(*ALL)
Call the QCAPCMD API and specify the message reference key
to have the i5/OS® command
analyzer to process a request message for an i5/OS command.
You can get the message reference key when you receive the request message.
Process Commands (QCAPCMD) will update the request message in the job log
and add any new value supplied. QCAPCMD also hides any parameter values, such
as passwords, that are to hidden in the job log. The system will not update
the request message in the job log when one of two conditions exists.
Using the Execute Command (QCMDEXC or QCAEXEC) APIs.
Failing to supply a message reference key to QCAPCMD.

Parent topic: Receiving messages into a CL procedure or program