Using libraries

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Objects and libraries

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries

Using libraries
A library is an object used to group related objects
and to find objects by name. Thus, a library is a directory to a group of
objects.
You can use libraries to perform the following
tasks:
Group certain objects for individual users. This helps you manage the
objects on your system. For example, you might place all the files that a
user JOE can use in a library JOELIB.
Group all objects used for an individual application. For example, you
might place all your order entry files and programs into an order entry library
DISTLIB. You need only add one library to the library list to ensure that
all your order entry files and programs are in the list. This is advantageous
if you do not want to specify a library name every time you use an order entry
file or program.
Ensure security. For example, you can specify which users have authority
to use the library and what they are allowed to do with the library.
Simplify security by having automatic authorization list and public authority
assignment for newly created objects based on the CRTAUT parameter value of
the library. Auditing attributes for newly created objects can be set based
on the Create Object Auditing (CRTOBJAUD) parameter value.
Simplify save/restore operations by grouping objects that are saved and
restored at the same time into the same library. You can use a Save
Library (SAVLIB) command instead of saving objects individually
using the Save Object (SAVOBJ) command.
Use multiple libraries for testing.
Use multiple production libraries. For example, you can use one production
library for source files and for the creation of objects, one for the application
programs and files, one for objects that are infrequently saved, and one for
objects that are frequently saved.

Multiple libraries make it easier to use objects. For example, you
can have two files with the same name but in different libraries so that one
can be used for testing and the other for normal processing. As long as you
do not specify the library name in your program, the file name in the program
does not have to be changed for testing or normal processing. You control
which library is used by using the library list. (Objects of the same type
can have the same names only if they are in different libraries.)
The
two types of libraries are production and test. A production library is for
normal processing. In debug mode, you can protect database files in production
libraries from being updated. While in debug mode, any files in test libraries
can be updated without any unique specifications.

Creating a library
To create a library, use the Create Library (CRTLIB) command.

Authority for libraries specification
Certain authorities can be given to users for libraries.
Security considerations for objects
When the system accesses an object that you refer to, it checks
to determine if you are authorized to use the object and to use it in the
way you are requesting.
Setting default public authority
When objects are created in a library, the public authority for
the object will, by default, be set by using the CRTAUT value of the library.
Setting default auditing attribute
When objects are created in a library, the auditing attribute of
the object will, by default, be set by using the CRTOBJAUD value of the library.
Placing objects in libraries
When you create an object, it is placed in a library.
Deleting and clearing libraries
When you delete a library with the Delete Library (DLTLIB) command,
you delete the objects in the library as well as the library itself.
Displaying library names and contents
The Display Library (DSPLIB) and Work
with Libraries (WRKLIB) commands display or print all the libraries
you have authority to and show basic information about each object
within the libraries.
Displaying and retrieving library descriptions
The Display Library Description (DSPLIBD) and Retrieve
Library Description (RTVLIBD) commands display and retrieve the
description of libraries.

Parent topic: Objects and libraries

Related concepts
Library objects

Related tasks
Debugging original program model programs