Variable Initialization

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Defining Data and Prototypes > Standalone Fields > Standalone Fields

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Defining Data and Prototypes > Standalone Fields

Variable Initialization

You can initialize data with the INZ{(initial value)} keyword on
the definition specification. Specify an initial value as a parameter
on the INZ keyword, or specify the keyword without a parameter and
use the default initial values. If the initialization is too complicated
to express using the INZ keyword, you can further initialize data
in the initialization subroutine.

Default initial values for the various data types are described
in Data Types and Data Formats. See Using Arrays and Tables for information
on initializing arrays.

Note: For variables defined like enumerations, the
default initial value is the default constant for the enumeration.
See DFT (Default enumeration constant).

To reinitialize data while the program
is running, use the CLEAR and RESET operations.

The CLEAR operation code sets a record format or variable (field,
subfield, indicator, data structure, array, or table) to its default
initial value. All fields in a record format, data structure, or array are
cleared in the order in which they are declared.

The RESET operation code restores a variable to its reset value.
The reset value for a global variable is the value it had at the end
of the initialization step in the RPG IV cycle, after the initialization
subroutine has been invoked.

You can use the initialization subroutine to assign initial values
to a global variable and then later use RESET to set the variable
back to this value. This applies only to the initialization subroutine
when it is run automatically as a part of the initialization step.

For local variables the reset value is the value of the variable
when the subprocedure was first called, but before the calculations
begin.

Parent topic: Standalone Fields