Declaratives

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Overview > Procedure Division Overview

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Overview

Declaratives
Declaratives provide one or more special-purpose sections that
are executed when an exception-condition occurs.
When Declarative Sections are specified, they must be grouped at
the beginning of the Procedure Division, and the entire Procedure
Division must be divided into sections.
Each Declarative Section starts with a USE sentence that identifies
the section's function; the series of procedures that follow specify
what actions are to be taken when the exception condition occurs.
Each Declarative Section ends with another section-name followed by
a USE sentence, or with the keywords END DECLARATIVES. See USE Statement for more information on the USE statement.
See Precedence Rules for Nested Programs on using the GLOBAL
phrase.
The entire group of Declarative Sections is preceded by the key word
DECLARATIVES, written on the line after the Procedure Division header;
the group is followed by the keywords END DECLARATIVES. The keywords
DECLARATIVES and END DECLARATIVES must each begin in Area A and be
followed by a separator period. No other text may appear on the same
line.
In the declaratives part of the Procedure Division, each section
header (with an optional segment number) must be followed by a separator
period, a USE sentence, and a separator period. No other text may
appear on the same line.
The USE sentence itself is never executed; instead, the USE sentence
defines the conditions that execute the succeeding procedural paragraphs,
which specify the actions to be taken. After the procedure is executed,
control is returned to the routine that caused the execution of it.
Within a declarative procedure, there must be no reference to any
nondeclarative procedure.
A procedure-name associated with a USE statement can be referenced
in a different declarative section or in a nondeclarative procedure
only with a PERFORM statement.
A declarative is run as a separate invocation from any other declaratives
or from the nondeclarative part of the COBOL program. See the
section on using declaratives in the error handling chapter of the IBM® Rational® Development Studio
for i: ILE COBOL Programmer's Guide.
Within a declarative procedure, no statement should be included
that would cause the execution of a USE procedure that had been previously
invoked and had not yet returned control to the invoking routine.
The declarative procedure is exited when the last statement in
the procedure is executed.

Parent topic: Procedure Division Overview