With arithmetic operators

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Expressions > Expressions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Expressions

With arithmetic operators
If arithmetic operators are used, the result of the expression
is a number derived from the application of the operators to the values
of the operands.
If any operand can be null, the result can be null. If
any operand has the null value, the result of the expression is the
null value.
If one operand of an arithmetic operator is numeric, the
other operand can be a string. The string is first converted to the
data type of the numeric operand and must contain a valid string representation
of a number.
The prefix operator + (unary plus) does not change
its operand. The prefix operator - (unary minus) reverses the
sign of a nonzero non-decimal floating-point operand. The prefix operator
- (unary minus) reverses the sign of all decimal floating-point
operands, including zero and special values; that is, signalling and
non-signalling NaNs and plus and minus infinity. If the data type
of A is small integer, the data type of - A is large integer. The
first character of the token following a prefix operator must not
be a plus or minus sign.
The infix operators, +, -, *, /, and **, specify
addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and exponentiation,
respectively. The value of the second operand of division must not
be zero, except if the calculation is performed
using decimal floating-point arithmetic and the first operand is infinity
or -infinity.
In COBOL, blanks must precede and follow a minus sign
to avoid any ambiguity with COBOL host variable names (which allow
use of a dash).
The result of an exponentiation (**) operator is a double-precision
floating-point number. The result of the other operators depends on
the type of the operand.
Operands with a NUMERIC data type are converted to DECIMAL
operands prior to performing the arithmetic operation.

Two integer operands
If both operands of an arithmetic operator are integers
with zero scale, the operation is performed in binary, and the result
is a large integer unless either (or both) operand is a big integer,
in which case the result is a big integer. Any remainder of division
is lost. The result of an integer arithmetic operation (including unary
minus) must be within the range of large or big integers.
If either integer operand has nonzero scale, it is converted to a
decimal operand with the same precision and scale.
Integer and decimal operands
If one operand is an integer with zero scale and the other is decimal,
the operation is performed in decimal using a temporary copy of the integer
that has been converted to a decimal number with precision and scale 0.
Two decimal operands
If both operands are decimal, the operation is performed
in decimal. The result of any decimal arithmetic operation is a decimal number
with a precision and scale that are dependent on the operation and the precision
and scale of the operands. If the operation is addition or subtraction and
the operands do not have the same scale, the operation is performed with a
temporary copy of one of the operands. The copy of the shorter operand is
extended with trailing zeros so that its fractional part has the same number
of digits as the longer operand.
Decimal arithmetic in SQL
The following formulas define the precision and scale of
the result of decimal operations in SQL. The symbols p and s denote
the precision and scale of the first operand and the symbols p'
and s' denote the precision and scale of the second operand.
Floating-point operands
If either operand of an arithmetic operator is floating
point and neither operand is decimal floating-point,
the operation is performed in floating point. The operands are first
converted to double-precision floating-point numbers, if necessary.
Thus, if any element of an expression is a floating-point number,
the result of the expression is a double-precision floating-point
number.
Decimal floating-point operands
If either operand of an arithmetic operator is decimal
floating-point, the operation is performed in decimal floating-point.
General arithmetic operation rules for DECFLOAT
The following general rules apply to all arithmetic operations
on the DECFLOAT data type.
Distinct type operands
A distinct type cannot be used with arithmetic operators
even if its source data type is numeric. To perform an arithmetic
operation, create a function with the arithmetic operator as its source.
For example, if there were distinct types INCOME and EXPENSES, both
of which had DECIMAL(8,2) data types, then the following user-defined
function, REVENUE, could be used to subtract one from the other.

Parent topic: Expressions