RENAMES Clause

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—Data Description Entry > Data Division—Data Description Entry

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—Data Description Entry

RENAMES Clause
The RENAMES clause specifies alternative, possibly overlapping,
groupings of elementary data items.

RENAMES Clause - Format

>>-66--data-name-1--RENAMES--data-name-2------------------------>

>--+--------------------------+--.-----------------------------><
   '-+-THROUGH-+--data-name-3-'    
    '-THRU----'    

One or more RENAMES entries can be written for a logical record.
All RENAMES entries associated with one logical record must immediately
follow that record's last data description entry. data-name-1
Identifies an alternative grouping of data items. A level-66
entry cannot rename a level-01, level-77, level-88, or another level-66
entry.
Data-name-1 cannot be used as a qualifier; it can be
qualified only by the names of level indicator entries or level-01
entries.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Data-name-1 can specify a DBCS data item if data-name-2
specifies a DBCS data item and the THROUGH phrase is not specified. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Data-name-1 can specify a national data item if data-name-2
specifies a national data item and the THROUGH phrase is not specified. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension If data-name-2
references one of the following data items, and the THROUGH phrase
is not specified, data-name-1 can be one of the following types of
data items:
DBCS
National
Pointer or procedure-pointer
Internal or external floating-point
Date, time, or timestamp

End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension
data-name-2, data-name-3
Identify the original grouping of elementary data items; that
is, they must be elementary or group items within the associated level-01
entry, and must not be the same data-name. Both data-names may be
qualified.
The OCCURS clause must not be specified in the data
entries for data-name-2 and data-name-3, or for any group entry to
which they are subordinate. In addition, the OCCURS DEPENDING ON
clause must not be specified for any item defined between data-name-2
and data-name-3.

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension The TYPE clause must not be specified
in the data descriptions of data-name-2, data-name-3, and items defined
between data-name-2 and data-name-3, or any subordinates of these
items. If data-name-2, data-name-3, or any items defined between data-name-2
and data-name-3 are subordinate to a group item defined using the
TYPE clause, then data-name-1 must be subordinate to the same group
item. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension
When data-name-3 is specified, data-name-1 is treated
as a group item that includes all elementary items:
Starting with data-name-2 (if it is an elementary item) or the
first elementary item within data-name-2 (if it is a group item)
Ending with data-name-3 (if it is an elementary item) or the last
elementary item within data-name-3 (if it is a group item)

The leftmost character in data-name-3 must not precede
that in data-name-2; the rightmost character in data-name-3 must follow
that in data-name-2. This means that data-name-3 cannot be subordinate
to data-name-2.

When data-name-3 is not specified, all of the
data attributes of data-name-2 become the data attributes for data-name-1.
That is:
When data-name-2 is a group item, data-name-1 is treated as a
group item.
When data-name-2 is an elementary item, data-name-1 is treated
as an elementary item.

Figure 1 illustrates valid
and invalid RENAMES clause specifications.
Related Information: Illustrations of Valid and Invalid
RENAMES Clause Specifications

Illustrations of Valid and Invalid RENAMES Clause Specifications

Parent topic: Data Division—Data Description Entry