Commands used to send messages to a system user

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Messages

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages

Commands used to send messages to a system user
Several commands can be used to send messages to system users.
Send Message (SNDMSG)
Send Break Message (SNDBRKMSG)
Send Program Message (SNDPGMMSG)
Send User Message (SNDUSRMSG)

Send Program Message (SNDPGMMSG) and Send
User Message (SNDUSRMSG) can only be used in batch or interactive
original program model (OPM) programs or Integrated Language Environment® (ILE) procedures. These commands cannot be entered on a command
line. The Send Message (SNDMSG) command sends an informational
or inquiry message to the system operator message queue (QSYSOPR), a display
station message queue, or a user message queue. You can send an informational
message to more than one message queue at a time. But you can send an inquiry
message to only one message queue at a time. The message is delivered by
the delivery type specified for the message queue. The message does not interrupt
the user unless the message queue is in break mode.
The following Send
Message (SNDMSG) command is sent by a display station user to the
system operator:
SNDMSG MSG('Mount tape on device TAP1') TOUSR(*SYSOPR)
The Send Break Message (SNDBRKMSG) command
sends an immediate message from a workstation, a program, or a job to one
or more display stations to be delivered in the break mode regardless of what
delivery mode the receiver's message queue is set to. This command can be
used to send a message only to display station message queues. You should
use the Send Break Message (SNDBRKMSG) command when sending
any message that requires the immediate attention of a display station user.
You cannot ensure the message will cause a break, because each job has control
by using the BRKMSG parameter on the Change Job (CHGJOB) command.
If
you send an inquiry message, you can specify that the reply be sent to a message
queue other than that of your display station.
The following Send
Break Message (SNDBRKMSG) command is sent by the system operator
to all the display station message queues:
SNDBRKMSG MSG('System going down in 15 minutes')
TOMSGQ(*ALLWS)
The disadvantage of sending this message is that it is sent
to all users, not just those users who are active at the time the message
is sent.

Parent topic: Messages

Related reference
Commands used to send messages from a CL program