Character-string constants

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Constants > Constants

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Constants

Character-string constants
A character-string constant specifies a varying-length
character string.
The two forms of character-string constant follow:
A sequence of characters that starts and ends with a string delimiter.
The number of bytes between the string delimiters cannot be greater
than 32740. Two consecutive string delimiters are used to represent
one string delimiter within the character string. Two consecutive
string delimiters that are not contained within a string represent
the empty string.
An X followed by a sequence of characters that starts and ends
with a string delimiter. The characters between the string delimiters
must be an even number of hexadecimal digits. Blanks between the string
delimiters are ignored. The number of hexadecimal digits must not
exceed 32762. A hexadecimal digit is a digit or any of the letters
A through F (uppercase or lowercase). Under the conventions of hexadecimal
notation, each pair of hexadecimal digits represents a character.
This form of string constant allows you to specify characters that
do not have a keyboard representation.

Character-string constants can contain mixed data. If
the job CCSID supports mixed data, a character-string constant is
classified as mixed data if it includes a DBCS substring. In all other
cases, a character-string constant is classified as SBCS data.
The CCSID assigned to the constant is the
CCSID of the SQL statement text containing the constant unless the
SQL statement is encoded in Unicode or a foreign encoding scheme (such
as ASCII). In this case, the SQL statement text is converted from
Unicode or the foreign encoding scheme to the default CCSID of the
current server. The CCSID assigned to the constant will be the default
CCSID of the current server1.
The CCSID of the SQL statement text is defined
in the following table.
Table 1. CCSID
of the SQL statement text for different interfacesSQL Interface
CCSID of SQL statement text

Embedded SQL
For static statements, the CCSID of the source file for the CRTSQLxxx
command.
For dynamic statements, the CCSID of the variable specified on
the PREPARE statement, or if a string constant is specified on the
PREPARE statement, the CCSID of the source file for the CRTSQLxxx
command.

RUNSQLSTM
The CCSID of the specified source
file.

STRSQL and RUNSQL
The default CCSID of the current
server.

Call Level Interface (CLI) on the
server
Unicode, if SQL_ATTR_UCS2, SQL_ATTR_UTF8, or
wide APIs are specified.
Otherwise, the default CCSID of the
current server. The SQL_ATTR_NON_HEXCCSID environment variable can
be used to specify the DFTCCSID job attribute instead.

ODBC on a client using the IBM® i
Access Family ODBC Driver
Unicode, if UNICODESQL is specified.
Otherwise,
the default CCSID of the current server. If the default CCSID is 65535,
the CCSID used will be the value of the DFTCCSID job attribute.

JDBC or SQLJ on the server using IBM Developer
Kit for Java™
Unicode

JDBC on a client using the IBM Toolbox
for Java
Unicode

OLE DB on a client using the IBM i Access Family OLE DB Provider
Unicode

.ADO .NET on a client using the IBM i Access Family ODO .NET Provider
Unicode

Character-string constants are used to represent constant
datetime values in assignments and comparisons. For more information
see String representations of datetime values.
Examples 'Peggy' '14.12.1990' '32' 'DON''T CHANGE' '' X'FFFF'

Parent topic: Constants

1 If the default CCSID is 65535, the
CCSID used will be the value of the DFTCCSID job attribute.