Basic National Literals

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > COBOL Language Structure > Characters > Character-Strings > Literals > National Literals > National Literals

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > COBOL Language Structure > Characters > Character-Strings > Literals > National Literals

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension
Basic National Literals
When the NATIONALPICNLIT PROCESS option is in effect, the opening
delimiter N" or N' identifies a national literal.
A national literal is of the class and
category national.
When the NATIONALPICNLIT PROCESS option is not in effect,
the opening delimiter N"
or N' identifies a DBCS literal,
and the rules specified in
DBCS Literals apply.
Basic national literals have the following format:

Format

>>-N"--character-data--"---------------------------------------><

N"
The opening delimiter for a national literal.
character-data
The source text representation of the content of the national literal.
character-data can
contain any allowable character from the EBCDIC character set.
"
The closing delimiter for a national literal.

The enclosing quotation marks (or apostrophes) are excluded from the literal when
the program is compiled. An embedded quotation mark must be represented by a
pair of quotation marks ("").
If the *APOST compiler option is in effect, the national literal must be enclosed
by apostrophes (').
To include the quotation mark or apostrophe used in the opening delimiter
in the content of the literal, specify a pair of quotation marks or
apostrophes, respectively. For example
N'This literal''s content includes an apostrophe'
N'This literal includes ", which is not used in the opening delimiter'
N"This literal includes "", which is used in the opening delimiter"

The maximum length of a basic national literal is 256 characters,
excluding the opening and closing delimiters.
The literal must contain at least one character.
The source text representation of character-data is automatically converted to
the national CCSID in effect for use at run time, for example, when the literal is moved to or compared
with a data item of category national.
ALL followed by a basic national literal is
a basic national literal.

Parent topic: National Literals

End of IBM Extension End of IBM Extension