CREATE ALIAS

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

CREATE ALIAS
The CREATE ALIAS statement defines an alias on a table,
partition of a table, view, or member of a database file at the current or remote server.
InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared.
AuthorizationThe privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
The privilege to create in the schema. For more information, see Privileges necessary
to create in a schema.
Database administrator authority

The privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement
must include at least one of the following:
The following system authorities: *USE to the Create DDM File (CRTDDMF) command

Database administrator authority

If SQL names are specified and a user profile exists that
has the same name as the library into which the alias is created,
and that name is different from the authorization ID of the statement,
then the privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement
must include at least one of the following:
The system authority *ADD to the user profile with that name
Database administrator authority

To replace an existing alias, the privileges held
by the authorization ID of the statement must include at least one
of the following:
The following system authorities:The system authority of *OBJMGT on the alias
All authorities needed to DROP the alias

Database administrator authority

SyntaxCREATEOR
REPLACEALIASalias-nameFORtable-nameview-name(partition-namemember-name)
DescriptionOR REPLACE
Specifies
to replace the definition for the alias if one exists at the current
server. The existing definition is effectively dropped before the
new definition is replaced in the catalog with the exception that
privileges that were granted on the alias are not affected. This option
is ignored if a definition for the alias does not exist at the current
server.
alias-name
Names
the alias. The name, including the implicit or explicit qualifier,
must not be the same as an index, table, view, alias or file that
already exists at the current server.If the alias-name is
qualified, the name can be a two-part or three-part name. The schema
name should not be a system schema. If a three-part name is used,
the first part must identify a relational database name in the relational
database directory.
For more information about
connecting to a remote relational database and the local directory,
see SQL
Programming and the Distributed Database Programming.

If SQL names were specified, the alias will be created in the
schema specified by the implicit or explicit qualifier.
If
system names were specified, the alias will be created in the schema
that is specified by the qualifier. If not qualified, the alias will
be created in the same schema as the table or view for which the alias
was created. If the table is not qualified and does not exist at the
time the alias is created:
If the value of the CURRENT SCHEMA special register is *LIBL,
the alias will be created in the current library (*CURLIB).
Otherwise, the alias will be created in the current schema.

If the alias name is not a valid system name, DB2® for
i will generate a system
name. For information about the rules for generating a name, see Rules for Table Name Generation.

FOR table-name or view-name
Identifies the table
or view at the current or remote server for
which the alias is to be defined. An alias name cannot be specified
(an alias cannot refer to another alias), unless
the name refers to an alias on a remote server.If
a three-part name is specified with a non-local relational database
name, the alias-name must be the same as
the table-name or view-name.
The table-name or view-name need
not identify a table or view that exists at the time the alias is
created. If the table or view does not exist when the alias is created,
a warning is returned. If the table or view does not exist when the
alias is used, an error is returned.
If SQL names were specified
and the table-name or view-name was
not qualified, then the qualifier is the implicit qualifier. For more
information, see Naming conventions.
If system
names were specified and the table-name or view-name is
not qualified and does not exist when the alias is created, the table-name or view-name is
qualified by the library in which the alias is created.

partition-name
Identifies a partition of a partitioned table. If a partition
is specified, the alias cannot be used in SQL schema statements. If
a partition is not specified, all partitions in the table are included
in the alias.
If a partition name is specified,
a three-part name should not be specified in the FOR clause. If a
three-part name is specified and identifies a different relational
database than the relational database of the alias, any attempt to
use the alias will fail.

member-name
Identifies a member of a database file. If a member
name is not specified and the table is not a partitioned table, *FIRST
is used. If a member name is not specified and the table is a partitioned
table, all members (partitions) are used.If a member is specified,
the alias cannot be used in most SQL schema statements. It can be
used in CREATE PROCEDURE, CREATE FUNCTION and in a CREATE TABLE with
an as-result-table clause.
If a member
name is specified, a three-part name should not be specified in the
FOR clause. If a three-part name is specified and identifies a different
relational database than the relational database of the alias, any
attempt to use the alias will fail.

NotesAlias references: An alias can be
defined to reference either the system name or SQL name. Since system
names are generated during create processing, it is generally recommended
that the SQL name be specified.
However, if the
alias specifies a reference to a three-part name and the alias will
be used as a DDM file in native commands or native access, the name
specified must be the system name.
The Override Database File
(OVRDBF) CL command also allows the database manager to process individual
members of a database file. Creating an alias over a partition of
a table or member of a database file, however, is easier and performs
better by eliminating the need to perform the override.
Alias attributes: An alias is created
as a special form of a DDM file. Both an alias and
a normal DDM file can be used in SQL, but if the alias or DDM file
specifies a non-local relational database name, the specified table-name or view-name must
be the same as the name of the alias.
An alias created over a distributed table is only created
on the current server. For more information about distributed tables,
see DB2 Multisystem.
Alias ownership: If SQL names were specified:
If a user profile with the same name as the schema into which
the alias is created exists, the owner of the alias is that
user profile.
Otherwise, the owner of the alias is the user profile or
group user profile of the thread executing the
statement.

If system names were specified, the owner of
the alias is the user profile or group user profile of the thread executing
the statement.
Alias authority: If SQL names are used, aliases
are created with the system authority of *EXCLUDE on *PUBLIC. If system
names are used, aliases are created with the authority to *PUBLIC
as determined by the create authority (CRTAUT) parameter of the schema.
If the owner of the alias is a member of a group profile
(GRPPRF keyword) and group authority is specified (GRPAUT keyword),
that group profile will also have authority to the alias.
REPLACE rules: When an alias is recreated
by REPLACE:Any existing comment or label is discarded.
Authorized users are maintained. The object owner could change.
Current journal
auditing is preserved.

Packages and three-part aliases: When
an application uses three-part name aliases for remote objects and DRDA® access, a package for the
application program must exist at each location that is specified
in the three-part names. A package can be explicitly created using
the CRTSQLPKG CL command. If the three-part name alias is referenced
and a package does not exist, the database manager will attempt to
implicitly create the package.
Syntax alternatives: The following keywords are
synonyms supported for compatibility to prior releases. These keywords
are non-standard and should not be used:
The keyword SYNONYM can be used as a synonym for ALIAS.

ExamplesExample 1: Create an alias
named CURRENT_PROJECTS for the PROJECT table.
CREATE ALIAS CURRENT_PROJECTS
FOR PROJECT
Example
2: Create an alias named SALES_JANUARY on the JANUARY partition
of the SALES table. The sales table has 12 partitions (one for each
month of the year).
CREATE ALIAS SALES_JANUARY
FOR SALES(JANUARY)
Example 3: Create an alias named REPORTS.SALES
for the SALES table in schema REPORTS on relational database USARDB.
CREATE ALIAS REPORTS.SALES
FOR USARDB.REPORTS.SALES

Parent topic: Statements