Additional considerations for describing printer files that contain
DBCS data

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Double-byte character set considerations for printer files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Double-byte character set considerations for printer files

Additional considerations for describing printer files that contain
DBCS data

Consider this information when describing
a printer file that contains double-byte character set (DBCS) data.

If you describe fields in the file as DBCS fields, the system considers
the file to be DBCS even if you do not specify IGCDTA(*YES) on the file creation
command.

Specify IGCDTA(*YES) on the CRTPRTF command when DBCS data is present
in the file, but is not indicated in DDS. For example, specify IGCDTA(*YES)
if the file sends messages that are DBCS (DDS keyword, MSGCON).

Each printed DBCS character is twice as wide as a printed alphanumeric
character. The location of a character on a printed page, as specified in
DDS, is affected by the value specified for the CPI and IGCCPI parameters
in the file description. Although the system does not use the CPI or IGCCPI
values to determine the printed length of a field, this value does affect
the physical space used on a printed form. The physical space occupied
on a printed form is also affected by the method used to print the shift-control
characters. Specify shift-control character printing in the file description
(IGCSOSI parameter on the CRTPRTF, CHGPRTF, and OVRPRTF commands). The IGCSOSI
value specified for the printer file is ignored for DBCS-graphic fields. These
fields are printed as if IGCSOSI(*NO) was specified. Note: DDS does not consider
the values specified for the CPI, IGCCPI, and IGCSOSI parameter values when
calculating the printed length. Therefore, overlapping might occur when the
field is actually printed, although the problem is not indicated when the
DDS file is compiled.

This information applies to constant fields
with DBCS data and to named fields.

When using the reference function in a printer file, if you refer to a
field in a database file that has data type J, O, or E, DDS assigns data type
O for the field in the printer file. If you refer to a field that has data
type G, DDS assigns data type G for the field in the printer file.