Positions 33-39 (To Position / Length)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Definition Specifications > Traditional Definition Specification Statement > Traditional Definition Specification Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Definition Specifications > Traditional Definition Specification Statement

Positions 33-39 (To Position / Length)

Free-Form Syntax

To Position

Use the POS keyword
to specify the From position, and
use the length parameter of the
data-type keyword to specify the length
in characters or digits.

Length

Length parameter of the
data-type keyword.

Entry
Explanation

Blank

If positions 33-39 are blank:

a named constant is being defined on this specification line, or

the standalone field, parameter, or subfield is being defined LIKE another
field, or

the standalone field, parameter, or subfield is of a type where a length
is implied, or

the subfield's attributes are defined elsewhere, or

a data structure is being defined. The length of the data structure is
the maximum value of the subfield To-Positions. The data structure may be
defined using the LIKEDS or LIKEREC keyword.

nnnnnnn

Positions 33-39 may contain a (right-justified) numeric value,
from 1 to 9999999, as follows:

If the From field (position 26-32) contains a numeric value, then a numeric
value in this field specifies the absolute end position of the subfield within
a data structure.

If the From field is blank, a numeric value in this field specifies :

the length of the entire data structure, or

the length of the standalone field, or

the length of the parameter, or

the length of the subfield. Within the data structure, this subfield is
positioned such that its starting position is greater than the maximum to-position
of all previously defined subfields in the data structure. Padding is inserted
if the subfield is defined with type basing pointer or procedure pointer to
ensure that the subfield is aligned properly.

Note:
For graphic or UCS-2 fields, the number specified here is the
number of graphic or UCS-2 characters, NOT the number of bytes (1 graphic
or UCS-2 character = 2 bytes). For numeric fields, the number specified here
is the number of digits (for packed and zoned numeric fields: 1-63; for binary
numeric fields: 1-9; for integer and unsigned numeric fields: 3, 5, 10, or
20; ).

For float numeric fields the number specified is the number of bytes,
NOT the number of digits (4 or 8 bytes).

If you want to define a character, UCS-2 or graphic definition
with a length greater than 9999999, use the LEN keyword instead of specifying
the Length entry. If you want to explicitly position a subfield whose length
is defined with the LEN keyword, use the OVERLAY keyword. You code the data
structure name in the first parameter of the OVERLAY keyword, and the desired
start position of the subfield in the second parameter of the OVERLAY keyword.

+|-nnnnn

This entry is valid for standalone fields or subfields defined using
the LIKE keyword. The length of the standalone field or subfield being defined
on this specification line is determined by adding or subtracting the value
entered in these positions to the length of the field specified as the parameter
to the LIKE keyword.
Note:
For graphic or UCS-2 fields, the number specified here is the number of
graphic or UCS-2 characters, NOT the number of bytes (1 graphic or UCS-2 character
= 2 bytes). For numeric fields, the number specified here is the number of
digits.

For float fields, the entry must be blank or +0. The size of a float field
cannot be changed as with other numerics.

For timestamp fields, if you specify a length,
it must be 19, or 21 to 32.

Reserved Words

If positions 26-32 are used to enter special reserved words, this field
becomes an extension of the previous one, creating one large field (positions
26-39). This allows for reserved words, with names longer than 7 characters
in length, to extend into this field. See Positions 26-32 (From Position), 'Reserved
Words'.

Parent topic: Traditional Definition Specification Statement