DECFLOAT

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

DECFLOAT
The DECFLOAT function returns a decimal floating-point
representation of a number or a string representation of a number.
Numeric to DECFLOAT
DECFLOAT(numeric-expression,34,16)
String to DECFLOAT
DECFLOAT(string-expression,34,16,decimal-character)
The DECFLOAT function returns a decimal floating-point
representation of:
A number
A character or graphic string representation of a decimal number
A character or graphic string representation of an integer
A character or graphic string representation of a floating-point
number
A character or graphic string representation of a decimal floating-point
number

Numeric to DECFLOATnumeric-expression
An expression that returns a value of any built-in numeric data
type.
34 or 16
Specifies the number of digits of precision for the result. The default is 34.

The result is the same number that would occur
if the first argument were assigned to a decimal floating-point column
or variable.
String to DECFLOATstring-expression
An expression that returns a value that is a character-string
or graphic-string representation of a number. Leading and trailing
blanks are eliminated and the resulting string folded
to uppercase must conform to the rules for forming a floating-point,
decimal floating-point, integer, or decimal constant.
34 or 16
Specifies the number of digits of precision for the result. The default is 34.
decimal-character
Specifies the single-byte character constant that is used to delimit
the decimal digits in string-expression from
the whole part of the number. The character must be a period or comma.
If decimal-character is not specified, the
decimal point is the default decimal separator character. For more
information, see Decimal point.

The result is the same number that would result
from CAST(string-expression AS DECFLOAT(34))
or CAST(string-expression AS DECFLOAT(16)).
The result of the function is a DECFLOAT number with the
specified (either implicitly or explicitly) number of digits of precision.
If the first argument can be null, the result can be null; if the
first argument is null, the result is the null value.
If necessary,
the source is rounded to the precision of the target. See CURRENT DECFLOAT ROUNDING MODE for more information.
NoteSyntax alternatives: The CAST
specification should be used to increase the portability of applications.
For more information, see CAST specification.
ExampleUse the DECFLOAT function in order to force a DECFLOAT data type
to be returned in a select-list for the EDLEVEL column (data type
= SMALLINT) in the EMPLOYEE table. The EMPNO column should also appear
in the select-clause.   SELECT EMPNO, DECFLOAT(EDLEVEL,16)
    FROM EMPLOYEE

Parent topic: Scalar functions