DUMP (Program Dump)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes > Operation Codes

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes

DUMP (Program Dump)

Free-Form Syntax

DUMP{(A)} {identifier}

Code

Factor 1

Factor 2

Result Field

Indicators

DUMP (A)

identifier

 

 

 

 

 

The DUMP operation provides a dump (all fields, all
files, indicators, data structures, arrays, and tables defined) of
the module. It can be used independently or in combination with the IBM® i testing and debugging
functions. When the OPTIMIZE(*FULL) compiler option is selected on
either the CRTBNDRPG or CRTRPGMOD command or as a keyword on a control
specification, the field values shown in the dump may not reflect
the actual content due to the effects of optimization.

If the DBGVIEW(*NONE) compiler option is specified,
the dump will only show the program status data structure, the file
information data structures, and the *IN indicators. Other variables
will not have their contents shown because the object does not contain
the necessary observability information.

If the DEBUG(*NO) control-specification keyword is specified,
no dump is performed. You can override this keyword by specifying
operation extender A. This operation extender means that a dump is
always performed, regardless of the value of the DEBUG keyword.

The contents of the optional identifier operand
identify the DUMP operation. It will replace the default heading on
the dump listing if specified. It must contain a character or graphic
entry that can be one of: a field name, literal, named constant, table
name, or array element whose contents identify the dump. If the identifier operand
is a graphic entry, it is limited to 64 double byte characters. identifier cannot
be a figurative constant.

The program continues processing the next calculation statement
following the DUMP operation.

The DUMP operation is performed if the DEBUG keyword
is specified on the control specification, or the A operation extender
is coded for the DUMP operation. Otherwise, the DUMP operation is
checked for errors and the statement is printed on the listing, but
the DUMP operation is not processed.

When dumping files, the DUMP will dump the File Feedback Information
section of the INFDS, but not the Open Feedback Information or the
Input/Output Feedback Information sections of the INFDS. DUMP will
instead dump the actual Open Feedback, and Device Feedback Information
for the file.

Note that if the INFDS you have declared is not large enough to
contain the Open Feedback, or Input/Output Feedback Information, then
you do not have to worry about doing a POST before DUMP since the
File Feedback Information in the INFDS is always up to date.

The values of variables in subprocedures may not be valid if the
subprocedure is not active. If a subprocedure has been called recursively,
the values from the most recent invocation are shown.

Java™ object variables
may not show the expected value. The RPG module may retain the reference
to an object after the object no longer exists; it is possible for
an object reference to be reused, and refer to a different object
that is unrelated to the RPG module being dumped. That different object
is the one that will appear in the formatted dump.

For an sample dump listing, see the chapter on obtaining dumps
in the Rational® Development Studio for i: ILE RPG Programmer's Guide.

For more information, see Information Operations.

Parent topic: Operation Codes