Decimal floating-point constants

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Constants > Constants

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Constants

Decimal floating-point constants
A decimal floating-point constant specifies a decimal
floating-point number as two numbers separated by an E. The first
number can include a sign and a decimal point; the second number can
include a sign but not a decimal point. The value of the constant
is the product of the first number and the power of 10 specified by
the second number; it must be within the range of DECFLOAT(34). The
number of characters in the constant must not exceed 42. Excluding
leading zeros, the number of digits in the first number must not exceed
34 and the number of digits in the second must not exceed 4.
A constant specified as two numbers separated by E is
a decimal floating-point constant only if:Excluding leading zeros, the number of digits in the first number
exceeds 17 (precision).
The exponent is outside of the range of double floating-point
numbers (smaller than -308 or larger than 308).

In addition to numeric constants, the following reserved
keywords can be used to specify decimal floating-point special values.
These special values are: INFINITY, NAN, and SNAN. INFINITY represents
infinity, a number whose magnitude is infinitely large. INFINITY can
be preceded by an optional sign. INF can be specified in place of
INFINITY. NAN represents Not a Number (NaN) and is sometimes called
quiet NaN. It is a value that represents undefined results which does
not cause a warning or exception. SNAN represents signaling NaN (sNaN).
It is a value that represents undefined results which will cause a
warning or exception if used in any operation that is defined in any
numerical operation. Both NAN and SNAN can be preceded by an optional
sign, but the sign is not significant for arithmetic
operations. SNAN can be used in non-numerical operations without
causing a warning or exception, for example in the VALUES list of
an INSERT or as a constant compared in a predicate.
When
one of the special values (INFINITY, INF, NAN, and SNAN) is used in
a context where it could be interpreted as an identifier, such as
a column name, cast a string constant representing the special value
to decimal-floating point. CAST('snan' AS DECFLOAT(34))
CAST('INF' AS DECFLOAT(34))
CAST('Nan' AS DECFLOAT(34))

Examples1.8E308 -1.23456789012345678E-2 SNAN -INFINITY

Parent topic: Constants