Length for ICF files (positions 30 through 34)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS Reference: ICF Files > Define an ICF file using DDS

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS Reference: ICF Files > Define an ICF file using DDS

Length for ICF files (positions 30 through 34)

You must specify the field length for each field
(unless you copy the field's attributes from a referenced field).

Specify the number of digits for a numeric field, or the number
of characters for a character field. The length specification must be right-aligned;
leading zeros are optional. Valid length specifications for ICF files are
as follows:

Data type

Valid length

Character

1 through 32 767

Binary

1 through 9

Zoned decimal

1 through 63

Packed decimal

1 through 63

Floating-point single precision

1 through 9

Floating-point double precision

1 through 17

You can specify a maximum of 9 digits for single
precision and 17 digits for double precision. However, the IBM® i operating
system supports a floating-point accuracy of 7 digits for single precision
and 15 digits for double precision.
The sum of the number of bytes occupied
by all fields in a record must not exceed 32 767 for ICF files. The system
determines the number of bytes actually occupied as follows:

Data type

Bytes occupied in storage

Character

Number of characters

Binary

 

1-4 digits

2 bytes

5-9 digits

4 bytes

Zoned decimal

Number of digits

Packed decimal

(Number of digits/2) + 1 (truncated if fractional)

Floating-point (single precision)

4 bytes

Floating-point (double precision)

8 bytes

If you are using a referenced field, you can override the length
of the field by specifying a new value or by specifying the increase or decrease
in length. To increase the length, specify +n where n is the increase. To
decrease the length, specify -n, where n is the decrease. For example, an
entry of +4 for a numeric field indicates that it is to be 4 digits longer
than the referenced field.
Note: High-level languages can impose specific
length and value restrictions on the field length. Observe these restrictions
for files used by those languages.