where-clause

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > subselect > subselect

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > subselect

where-clause
The WHERE clause specifies an intermediate result table
that consists of those rows of R for which the search-condition is
true. R is the result of the FROM clause of the statement.
WHEREsearch-condition
The search-condition must conform
to the following rules:
Each column-name must unambiguously
identify a column of R or be a correlated reference. A column-name is
a correlated reference if it identifies a column of a table, view, common-table-expression,
or nested-table-expression identified in an outer fullselect.
An aggregate function must not be specified unless the WHERE clause
is specified in a subquery of a HAVING clause and the argument of
the function is a correlated reference to a group.

Any subquery in the search-condition is
effectively executed for each row of R and the results are used in
the application of the search-condition to
the given row of R. A subquery is executed for each row of R if it
includes a correlated reference to a column of R. A subquery with
no correlated reference is typically executed just once.
If row access controls are enabled for a table and no
other row permission is defined, the row access control search condition
is the default row permission, 1 = 0. If only one row permission is
defined, the row access control search condition is the search conditions
that are specified by that permission. Otherwise, if multiple row
permissions are defined for a table, the row access control search
condition is derived by application of the logical OR operator to
the search conditions that are specified by each row permission. This
row access control search condition, as a whole, is connected by application
of the logical AND operator to the search conditions specified by
the WHERE clause and has the same precedence level as other search
conditions in the WHERE clause. This process is repeated for each
table-reference in the FROM clause of the subselect for which
row access controls are enabled.
The
row access control search condition acts as a filter to the table-reference to
determine the results of the table-reference that are accessible
to the authorization ID of the subselect. Because the order in which
operators are evaluated is undefined for operators at the same precedence
level, other search conditions in the WHERE clause might be evaluated
before the row access control search condition. So, the other search
conditions have access to the rows that are restricted by the row
permission rules. To ensure that sensitive data is protected, the
predicates that reference user-defined functions that are defined
with the NOT SECURED option are always evaluated after the row access
control search condition.
Column access control
does not affect the operation of the WHERE clause.
If a collating sequence other than *HEX is in effect when
the statement that contains the WHERE clause is executed and if the search-condition contains
operands that are SBCS data, mixed data, or Unicode data, then the
comparison for those predicates is done using weighted values. The
weighted values are derived by applying the collating sequence to
the operands of the predicate.

Parent topic: subselect