RTNCSRLOC (Return Cursor Location) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

RTNCSRLOC (Return Cursor Location) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword to
return the location of the cursor to an application program.

This keyword can be specified in two formats. These formats
are:
Return the name of the record and field in which the cursor is
currently positioned. Optionally, a third parameter can be specified
that will contain the relative cursor position within the field.

Return the row and column position of the cursor relative to the
display. Optionally, two additional parameters can be provided that
will return either the row and column position of the cursor relative
to the active window (if one exists) or the location of the cursor
at the beginning of the two-event mouse button definition.

The formats of the keyword is: RTNCSRLOC([*RECNAME]
&cursor-record &cursor-field
[&cursor-position])
or
RTNCSRLOC({*WINDOW | *MOUSE}
&cursor-row &cursor-column
[&cursor-row2
[&cursor-column2]])
The parameter for the first
format are:
The *RECNAME parameter indicates that RTNCSRLOC should return
the name of the record and field on which the cursor is positioned.
Optionally, it will also return the relative position of the cursor
with the field. This parameter is optional.

The cursor-record parameter specifies the name of a hidden field
that, on input, will contain the name of the record on which the cursor
is located. The field must be defined in the record format as a character
(A in position 35) field of length 10, with usage H (hidden). If the
cursor is not in a record area on input, the cursor-record field will
contain blanks.

The cursor-field parameter specifies the name of a hidden field
that, on input, will contain the name of the field on which the cursor
is located. The field must be defined in the record format as a character
(A in position 35) field of length 10, with usage H (hidden). If the
cursor is not located on a field on input, the cursor-field field
will contain blanks.

The optional cursor-position parameter specifies the name of a
hidden field that, on input, will contain the relative position of
the cursor within the field on which it is located. The field must
be defined in the record format as a signed numeric (S in position
35) field of length 4, with 0 decimal positions and usage H (hidden).
If the cursor is in the first position of the field, the cursor-position
field will contain the value 1. If the cursor is in the ith
position, the cursor-position field will contain the value i.
If the cursor is not located on a field, the cursor-position field
will contain the value 0. If the cursor is located in a menu-bar or
selection-field list, then the cursor position parameter returns to
the choice number on which the cursor is located.

All three fields specified on the RTNCSRLOC keyword will
contain values on input if the cursor is outside the area of the record
that contains the RTNCSRLOC keyword. The fields also contain values
on input if the cursor is located in a subfile. The cursor-record
field will contain a value if the cursor is located anywhere inside
the subfile. The cursor-field and cursor-position fields will contain
values if the cursor is located on a field within the subfile.
The
parameters for the second format are:
The *WINDOW or *MOUSE parameter is used to qualify the cursor-row2
and cursor-column-2 parameters. *WINDOW causes these parameters to
return the cursor location relative to the first usable location in
the active window. *MOUSE causes these parameters to return the location
of the cursor just before a two-event mouse definition is processed.

The cursor-row parameter specifies the name of a hidden field
that, on input, contains the number of row on which the cursor is
located. The field must be defined in the record format as a data
type S, field length of 3, usage of H, and zero decimal positions.
The value returned in this hidden field will be relative to the entire
display where the first row of the display is row 1.

The cursor-column parameter specifies the name of a hidden field
that, on input, contains the number of the column on which the cursor
is located. The field must be defined in the record format as a data
type S, field length of 3, usage of H, and zero decimal positions.
The value returned in this hidden field will be relative to the entire
display where the first column of the display is column 1.

The optional cursor-row2 parameter specifies the name of a hidden
field. If *WINDOW is specified as the first parameter, the hidden
field will contain the relative row position of the cursor to the
first usable location of the active window. If there is no active
window, this value will be the same as &cursor-row. If the cursor
is in the first usable position of the window, the cursor-row2 field
will contain the value 1. If the cursor is outside of the active window,
it is possible for this value to be a negative number. If *MOUSE is
specified as the first parameter, the hidden field contains the row
number of the cursor at the instant just before a two-event mouse
definition is called. If a two-event mouse definition has not been
processed, this field will be set to zero. The field must be defined
in the record format as data type S, field length of 3, usage H, and
zero decimal positions.

The optional cursor-column2 parameter specifies the name of a
hidden field. If *WINDOW is specified as the first parameter, the
hidden field will contain the relative column position of the cursor
to the first usable location in the active window. If there is no
active window, this value will be the same as &cursor-column.
If the cursor is in the first usable position of the window, the cursor-column2
field will contain the value 1. If the cursor is outside of the active
window, it is possible for this value to be a negative number. If
*MOUSE is specified as the first parameter, the hidden field will
contain the column number of the cursor when the first event of a
two-event mouse definition has occurred. If a two-event mouse definition
has not been processed, this field will be set to zero. The field
must be defined in the record format as data type S, field length
of 3, usage of H, and zero decimal positions.

Both formats of this keyword can be specified with the
same record. If the same hidden field is used multiple times for any
of the parameters, unpredictable results will occur.
Option
indicators are not valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how
to specify the RTNCSRLOC keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A R REC01 RTNCSRLOC(&RCD &FLD &POS);
A RTNCSRLOC(*MOUSE &ROW &COL);
A FLD 10A H
A RCD 10A H
A POS 4S 0H
A FLD1A 2A I 3 2
A 10 FLD2A 6A O 3 18
A N10 FLD3A 10A O 3 18
A*
A R REC02 OVERLAY
A FLD1A 2A I 5 2
A FLD2A 10A O 5 5
A FLD3A 6A O 5 18
ABoth REC01 and REC02 are displayed on the screen
and option indicator 10 is off.
The following table shows the
values returned when the cursor is at the specified positions.

Row

Col

Cursor record

Cursor field

Cursor position

Cursor row

Cursor column

3

2

REC01

FLD1A

1

3

2

3

19

REC01

FLD3A1

2

3

19

3

25

REC01

FLD3A

8

3

25

3

40

REC01

blanks

0

3

40

4

40

blanks

blanks

0

4

40

5

5

REC02

FLD2A

1

5

5

5

40

REC02

blanks

0

5

40

1 If Option indicator 10 were on, FLD2A would be
returned when the cursor is at row 3 column 19.