Reference for physical and logical files (position 29)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Define physical and logical files using DDS > Positional entries for physical and logical files (positions 1 through 44)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Define physical and logical files using DDS > Positional entries for physical and logical files (positions 1 through 44)

Reference for physical and logical files (position 29)

You use this position to specify
reference for physical files only.

For a logical file, leave this position blank. All logical files
automatically provide the reference capability for all specified fields. Any
attributes that are not specified explicitly in the logical file are furnished
from the corresponding field in the physical file record format.
For
a physical file, specify R in this position to refer to the attributes of
a previously defined named field (called the referenced field).
You must specify the REF or the REFFLD keyword. The referenced field can be
previously defined in either the physical file you are defining or a previously
created database file. The field attributes referred to are the length, data
type, and decimal positions of the field, as well as the ALIAS, COLHDG, DATFMT,
DATSEP, FLTPCN, REFSHIFT, TEXT, TIMFMT, TIMSEP, VARLEN, editing, and validity
checking keywords.
If R is not specified, you must specify the field
attributes for this field.
Note: If the DATFMT keyword is overridden on
a reference field to *ISO, *EUR, *USA, or *JIS, the DATSEP keyword is not
referenced.
Position 29 must be blank at the file and record levels.
The
referenced field name cannot be the same as the field you are defining if
that field is in the file you are defining. If the names are the same, specify
the name of the file defining the referenced field as a parameter value with
the REF or REFFLD keyword. If the names are different, specify the name of
the referenced field with the REFFLD keyword.
To override specific attributes
of the referenced field, specify those attributes for the field you are defining.
In addition:
If you specify Edit Code (EDTCDE) or Edit Word (EDTWRD) on the field,
no editing specifications are copied from the referenced field.

If you specify CHECK (AB, ME, MF, M10, M10F, M11, M11F, VN, or VNE), CHKMSGID,
COMP, RANGE, or VALUES on the field, no validity checking specifications are
copied from the referenced field.

If you specify data type, field length, or decimal positions for the field
you are defining, then neither editing nor validity checking keywords are
copied from the referenced field.

Note: After the physical file is created, the referenced file can be
deleted or changed without affecting the field descriptions in the physical
file. To incorporate changes made in the referenced file, delete and re-create
the physical file.