ILE C/C++ Language Reference

IBM i programming resources > ILE C/C++ > Language Reference

IBM i programming resources > ILE C/C++ > Language Reference

ILE C/C++ Language Reference

Scope and linkage
Scope is the largest region of program
text in which a name can potentially be used without qualification
to refer to an entity; that is, the largest region in which the name
is potentially valid. Broadly speaking, scope is the general context
used to differentiate the meanings of entity names. The rules for
scope combined with those for name resolution enable the compiler
to determine whether a reference to an identifier is legal at a given
point in a file.
The scope of a declaration and the visibility of an identifier
are related but distinct concepts. Scope is the mechanism by which
it is possible to limit the visibility of declarations in a program.
The visibility of an identifier is the region
of program text from which the object associated with the identifier
can be legally accessed. Scope can exceed visibility, but visibility
cannot exceed scope. Scope exceeds visibility when a duplicate identifier
is used in an inner declarative region, thereby hiding the object
declared in the outer declarative region. The original identifier
cannot be used to access the first object until the scope of the duplicate
identifier (the lifetime of the second object) has ended.
Thus, the scope of an identifier is interrelated with the storage duration of the identified object, which
is the length of time that an object remains in an identified region
of storage. The lifetime of the object is influenced by its storage
duration, which in turn is affected by the scope of the object identifier.
Linkage refers to the use or availability
of a name across multiple translation units or within a single translation
unit. The term translation unit refers to
a source code file plus all the header and other source files that
are included after preprocessing with the #include directive,
minus any source lines skipped because of conditional preprocessing
directives. Linkage allows the correct association of each instance
of an identifier with one particular object or function.
Scope and linkage are distinguishable in that scope is for the
benefit of the compiler, whereas linkage is for the benefit of the
linker. During the translation of a source file to object code, the
compiler keeps track of the identifiers that have external linkage
and eventually stores them in a table within the object file. The
linker is thereby able to determine which names have external linkage,
but is unaware of those with internal or no linkage.
The distinctions between the different types of scopes are discussed
in Scope. The different types of linkages
are discussed in Program linkage.
Related information

Storage class specifiers
Namespaces (C++ only)

[ Top of Page | Previous Page | Next Page | Contents |
Index ]