TEXT parameter

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters > Commonly used parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters

TEXT parameter
The TEXT parameter specifies the user-defined
description that briefly describes the object that is being created or changed.
The description can include up to 50 characters; if it is a quoted
string (that is, enclosed in single quotation marks), any of the 256 EBCDIC
characters can be used. The single quotation marks are not required if the
string does not contain any blanks or other special characters. Any of the
50 character positions not filled by the specified description are padded
with blanks.
The description is used to describe any of the i5/OS® objects when the named object
is shown on the display by the Display Object Description (DSPOBJD) command.
Only objects for which object operational authority has been obtained can
be displayed by a user.
For commands that use a database source file
to create some type of object, you can (by default) use the text from the
source file member as the text for the newly-created object. For example,
if you use the Create Control Language Program (CRTCLPGM) command
to create a CL program, but you do not specify a description in the TEXT parameter,
the text specified for the source file member (SRCMBR parameter) of the source
file (SRCFILE parameter) is assumed as the descriptive text for the CL program.

Values allowedDepending upon the command, one or
more of the following values apply to the TEXT parameter.
*SRCMBRTXT
For commands that create objects based on database source files only,
the text is taken from the source member. If a device or an inline file is
used for source input or if source is not used, the text is left blank.
*BLANK
The user description of the object being created or changed is left blank.
*SAME
The user-defined description does not change.
'description'
Specify the description of the object being created or changed. Up to
50 characters enclosed in single quotation marks (required for blanks and
other special characters) can be specified to describe the object. If a single
quotation mark is one of the 50 characters, two single quotation marks ('')
must be used instead of one to represent the single quotation mark character.

Parent topic: Commonly used parameters

Related reference
OBJTYPE parameter