MSGCON (Message Constant) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

MSGCON (Message Constant) keyword for display files

You use this field-level keyword to indicate
that the text for constant fields is contained in a message description.

If the message description does not
exist at DDS compilation time, the file will not be created. If you change
the message description, you need to create the file again if you want the
display file to contain the updated message.
The format of the keyword
is: MSGCON(length message-ID [library-name/]message-file-name)
The
length parameter specifies the maximum length of the message description.
The length can be from 1 to 132 bytes. If the message description is less
than the length specified, the remaining bytes are padded with blanks (hex
40). If the message description is longer than the length specified, the message
description is truncated to the specified length and a warning message appears.
The
message-ID parameter specifies the message description that contains the text
to use as the value of the constant field.
The message-file-name parameter
identifies the message file that contains the message description. The library-name
parameter is optional.
The MSGCON keyword must be explicitly specified
for the field. The MSGCON keyword cannot be used to initialize a named field.
The
DFT and MSGCON keywords are functionally equivalent. If you specify the DFT
and MSGCON keywords for the same field, the MSGCON keyword is ignored and
the file is not created.
The MSGCON keyword cannot be specified with
any of the following keywords: DATE
DFT
EDTCDE
EDTWRD
TIME

Option indicators are not valid for changing the value
of the message line, but they are valid for conditioning the presence or absence
of the message on the display.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the MSGCON keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R RECORD1
00020A 2 1MSGCON(10 MSG0001 MESSAGE/MSGF)
AMSG0001 in message file MSGF in library MESSAGES contains
the message text.