Program Cycle

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > Procedures and the Program Logic Cycle > RPG Cycle and other implicit Logic > RPG Cycle and other implicit Logic

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > Procedures and the Program Logic Cycle > RPG Cycle and other implicit Logic

Program Cycle

The ILE RPG compiler supplies part of the logic for an RPG program.
For a cycle-main procedure, the logic the compiler supplies is called
the program cycle or logic cycle. The program cycle is a series of
ordered steps that the main procedure goes through for each record
read.

The information that you code on RPG IV specifications in your
source program need not explicitly specify when records should be
read or written. The ILE RPG compiler can supply the logical order
for these operations when your source program is compiled. Depending
on the specifications you code, your program may or may not use each
step in the cycle.

Primary (identified by a P in position 18 of the file description
specifications) and secondary (identified by an S in position 18 of
the file description specifications) files indicate input is controlled
by the program cycle. A full procedural file
(defined using a free-form DCL-F statement, or identified by an F in
position 18 of the file description specifications) indicates that
input is controlled by program-specified calculation operations (for
example, READ and CHAIN).

To control the cycle, you can have:

One primary file and, optionally, one or more secondary files

Only full procedural files

A combination of one primary file, optional secondary files, and
one or more full procedural files in which some of the input is controlled
by the cycle, and other input is controlled by the program.

No files (for example, input can come from a parameter list or
a data area data structure).

Note: No cycle code is generated for a module when
MAIN or NOMAIN is specified on the control specification. See Linear Module for more information.

General RPG IV Program Cycle

Detailed RPG IV Program Cycle

Parent topic: RPG Cycle and other implicit Logic