Rules for Figurative Constants

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Defining Data and Prototypes > Constants > Figurative Constants > Figurative Constants

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Defining Data and Prototypes > Constants > Figurative Constants

Rules for Figurative Constants

Remember the following rules when using figurative constants:

MOVE and MOVEL operations allow you to move a character figurative
constant to a numeric field. The figurative constant is first expanded
as a zoned numeric with the size of the numeric field, then converted
to packed or binary numeric if needed, and then stored in the target
numeric field. The digit portion of each character in the constant
must be valid. If not, a decimal data error will occur.

Figurative constants are considered elementary items. Except for
MOVEA, figurative constants act like a field if used in conjunction
with an array. For example: MOVE *ALL'XYZ' ARR.
If ARR has 4-byte
character elements, then each element will contain 'XYZX'.

MOVEA is considered to be a special case. The constant is generated
with a length equal to the portion of the array specified. For example:

MOVEA *BLANK ARR(X)
Beginning with element X, the remainder
of ARR will contain blanks.

MOVEA *ALL'XYZ' ARR(X)
ARR has 4-byte character elements.
Element boundaries are ignored, as is always the case with character
MOVEA operations. Beginning with element X, the remainder of the array
will contain 'XYZXYZXYZ...'.

Note that the results of MOVEA are different from those of the
MOVE example above.

After figurative constants are set/reset to their appropriate
length, their normal collating sequence can be altered if an alternate
collating sequence is specified.

The move operations MOVE and MOVEL produce the same result when
moving the figurative constants *ALL'x..', *ALLG'oK1K2i', and *ALLX'x1..'.
The string is cyclically repeated character by character (starting
on the left) until the length of the associated field is the same
as the length of the string.

Figurative constants can be used in compare operations as long
as one of the factors is not a figurative constant.

The figurative constants, *BLANK/*BLANKS, are moved as zeros to
a numeric field in a MOVE operation.

Parent topic: Figurative Constants