Assigning a severity code

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Defining message descriptions > Adding messages to a file > Adding messages to a file

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Defining message descriptions > Adding messages to a file

Assigning a severity code
The severity code you assign to a message on the Add
Message Description (ADDMSGD) command indicates how important the
message is.
The higher the severity code, the more serious the condition
is. The following lists the severity codes you can use and their meanings.
(These severity codes and their meanings are consistent with the severity
codes assigned to IBM-predefined messages.)
00: Information.
For information purposes only; no error was detected and no reply is needed.
The message could indicate that a function is in progress or that a function
has completed successfully.
10: Warning. A potential error
condition exists. The procedure or program may have taken a default, such
as supplying missing input. The results of the operation are assumed to be
successful.
20: Error. An error has been detected, but it is
one for which automatic recovery procedures probably were applied; processing
has continued. A default may have been taken to replace erroneous input.
The results of the operation may not be valid. The function may have been
only partially completed; for example, some items in a list processed correctly
while others failed.
30: Severe error. The error detected is
too severe for automatic recovery, and no defaults are possible. If the error
was in source data, the entire input record was skipped. If the error occurred
during procedure or program processing, it leads to an abnormal end of the
procedure or program (severity 40). The results of the operation are not
valid.
40: Abnormal end of procedure or function. The operation
has ended, possibly because the procedure or program was unable to handle
data that was not valid, or possibly because the user has canceled it.
50:
Abnormal end of job. The job was ended or was not started. A routing
step may have ended abnormally or failed to start, a job-level function may
not have been performed as required, or the job may have been canceled.
60:
System status. Issued only to the system operator. It gives either
the status of or a warning about a device, a subsystem, or the system.
70:
Device integrity. Issued only to the system operator. It indicates
that a device is malfunctioning or in some way is no longer operational.
The user may be able to recover from the failure, or the assistance of a service
representative may be required.
80: System alert. A message
with a severity code of 80 is issued for immediate messages. It also warns
of a condition that, although not severe enough to stop the system now, could
become more severe unless preventive measures are taken.
90: System
integrity. Issued only to the system operator. It describes a condition
that renders either a subsystem or the system inoperative.
99: Action.
Some manual action is required, such as entering a reply, changing printer
forms, or replacing diskettes.

Parent topic: Adding messages to a file

Related reference
SEV parameter

Related information
Add Message Description (ADDMSGD) command