ILE C/C++ Programmer's Guide

IBM i programming resources > ILE C/C++ > Programmer's Guide > Part 2. Creating and Compiling Programs > Chapter 6. Improving Run-Time Performance

IBM i programming resources > ILE C/C++ > Programmer's Guide > Part 2. Creating and Compiling Programs > Chapter 6. Improving Run-Time Performance

ILE C/C++ Programmer's Guide
Choosing Compiler Options to Optimize for Speed or Size
There are several ways to improve compile-time performance. These
include both front end and back end compile-time activities.
Table 6 describes different compiler options to make your program
run faster, and to make your compiled program smaller. Note that
sometimes you have to decide which is more important to you, program size or
program speed. In some cases optimizing for one aspect means the other
suffers.
Optimization is the process through which the system looks for
processing shortcuts that reduce the amount of system resources necessary to
produce output. Processing shortcuts are translated into machine code,
allowing the procedures in a module to run more efficiently. A highly
optimized program or service program should run faster than it would without
optimization.

To control the level of optimization, use the OPTIMIZE option on
the Create Module and Create Bound Program commands. Changing the
desired optimization level requires recompiling your source code.
Changing the optimization of a module can also be accomplished through a
Change Module (CHGMOD) command.
Note:You cannot use the Change Module (CHGMOD) command to change the optimization
level without recompiling your source code.

You should be aware of the following limitations when working with
optimized code:

In general, the higher the optimizing request, the longer it takes to
create an object.
At higher levels of optimization, the values of fields may not be accurate
when they are displayed in a debug session, or after the program recovers from
an exception.
Optimized code may have altered breakpoints and step locations used by the
source debugger because the optimization changes may rearrange or eliminate
some statements.
To circumvent this restriction while debugging, you can lower the
optimization level of a module to display fields accurately as you debug a
program, and then raise the level again afterwards, to improve the program
efficiency as you get the program ready for production.

Use the guidelines in Table 6, except where they are contradicted.
Intrinsic functions may improve performance, but they increase the size of
your module.

Table 6. Compiler Options for Performance

Option
Optimize for Speed
Optimize for Size

OPTIMIZE 10 //Default value
OPTIMIZE 20
OPTIMIZE 30
OPTIMIZE 40
Turns on optimization.
Yes
Yes

INLINE(*OFF)
Turns off inlining. May reduce module size, especially
if the inlined functions consist of small pieces of code.
No
Yes

INLINE(*ON)
Turns on inlining. Saves many function calls when a function is
called in a few places but executed many times.
Yes
No

DBGVIEW(*NONE)
Does not generate debug information, which would increase module
size.
No
Yes

[ Top of Page | Previous Page | Next Page | Table of Contents ]

(C) Copyright IBM Corporation 1992, 2005. All Rights Reserved.