SFL (Subfile) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

SFL (Subfile) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword to specify
that this record format is to be a subfile record format.

This record format (including its related field descriptions)
must immediately precede the subfile-control record format (identified
by the SFLCTL keyword).
This keyword has no parameters.
At
least one displayable field must be specified in the subfile record
format, unless the subfile is a message subfile (SFLMSGRCD keyword).
The locations specified for fields in this record format are the locations
on the display where the first subfile record in any one page of the
subfile is displayed. The remaining part of the page of records is
displayed below the first record.
The number of records in a
page is determined by the parameter value specified for the SFLPAG
keyword.
Displayable fields specified on the subfile-control
record format can be displayed at the same time as subfile records.
However, fields specified in the subfile-control record format cannot
overlap fields specified in the subfile record format, even if they
are specified with option indicators.
Overlap errors can occur
if the first field of either the subfile record or the subfile control
record starts in position 1. A field starting in position 1 has a
beginning attribute byte on the previous line. Therefore, the previous
line is also part of the record format.
The number of subfiles
(each having one SFL and one SFLCTL keyword specified) that can be
specified in a display file is limited only by the number of record
formats permitted in a display file (1024 record formats, or 512 subfiles,
maximum). Twelve subfiles can contain active records or be displayed
at one time.
For display size *DS3, the field will wrap to the
next line if the field extends beyond column 80.
Option indicators
are not valid for this keyword.
Besides SFL, the following keywords
are also valid on the subfile record format:
For message subfiles: SFLMSGRCD (required at the record level)
SFLMSGKEY (required at the field level)
SFLPGMQ

For all other subfiles (at the record level):

CHANGE
CHECK(AB)
CHECK(RL)
CHGINPDFT
INDTXT
KEEP

LOGINP
LOGOUT
SETOF
SETOFF
SFLNXTCHG
TEXT

The following otherwise valid keywords are not valid at
the field level when specified for the subfile record format:

DATE
DFTVAL
ERRMSG

ERRMSGID
MSGID
TIME

ExampleThe following example shows how
to specify the SFL keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R SFLR SFL
A*
00020A* (at least one displayable field)
A*
00030A R SFLCTLR SFLCTL(SFLR)
00040A SFLPAG(17)
00050A SFLSIZ(17)
00060A SFLDSP
00070A SFLDSPCTL
A