Condition for display files (positions 7 through 16)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > Define a display file for DDS > Positional entries for display files (positions 1 through 44)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > Define a display file for DDS > Positional entries for display files (positions 1 through 44)

Condition for display files (positions 7 through 16)

Positions 7 through 16 are a multiple-field area in which you can
specify option indicators.

Option indicators are 2-digit numbers from 01 to 99. Your program can set
option indicators on (hex F1) or off (hex F0) to select a field or keyword.
You can use option indicators to select fields to display different data on
different output operations instead of defining a different record format
for each combination of fields.

A condition is a grouping by AND of two through nine indicators
that must all be in effect before the field or keyword is selected. An AND
condition is set off if N is specified and it is set on if N is not specified.
You can specify a maximum of nine indicators for each condition and nine conditions
for each field or keyword. Therefore, a maximum of 81 indicators can be specified
for each field or keyword. An AND condition occurs when you specify a condition that
requires more than one indicator must be on or off before the
condition is satisfied. You can join the first indicator with the second,
and the third, and so on, by AND to form a condition. These indicators must
all be in effect before the condition is satisfied and the field or the keyword
is selected. You must specify the field or the keyword on the same line as
the last (or only) set of indicators specified.

You can also specify several conditions for a field or keyword
such that if any one of them is satisfied, the field or the keyword is selected.
This is called an OR relationship. You can join the first condition with the
second condition, and the third condition, and so on, by OR to form an OR
relationship. Conditions within the OR relationship can consist of just one
indicator or of several indicators joined by AND. Indicators can be joined
by AND to form a condition. Conditions can be joined by OR to give your program
several ways to select the field or keyword.
Position 7 (AND)

If you need more than three indicators to form an AND condition,
specify the indicators on the next line or lines. You can specify an A in
position 7 on the second or following lines to continue the AND condition,
or you can leave it blank because A is the default.

Position 7 (OR)

If you specify several conditions that are to be joined
by OR, each condition must start on a new line and each condition, except
the first, must have an O in position 7. An O specified for the first condition
produces a warning message, and that position is assumed to be blank.

Position 8, 11, 14 (NOT)

If you want an indicator to be off instead of on to satisfy a condition,
specify an N in the position just preceding the indicator (position 8, 11,
or 14).