CONNECT (type 1)

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

CONNECT (type 1)
The CONNECT (type 1) statement connects an activation group
within an application process to the identified application server
using the rules for remote unit of work. This server is then the current
server for the activation group. This type of CONNECT statement is
used if RDBCNNMTH(*RUW) was specified on the CRTSQLxxx command.
Differences between the two types of statements
are described in CONNECT (type 1) and CONNECT (type 2) differences. Refer to Application-directed distributed unit of work for more information about connection
states.
InvocationThis statement can only be embedded
within an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that cannot be dynamically prepared. It must not be specified
in Java™ or REXX.
CONNECT is not allowed in a trigger or function.
AuthorizationThe privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include communications-level
security. (See the section about security in Distributed Database Programming).
If the application server is DB2® for
i, the user profile
of the person issuing the statement must also be a valid user profile
on the application server system, UNLESS:
User is specified. In this case, the USER clause must specify
a valid user profile on the application server system.
TCP/IP is used with a server authorization entry for the application
server. In this case, the server authorization entry must specify
a valid user profile on the application server system.

If a global variable is referenced in a statement,
the privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement must
include at least one of the following:
For the global variable identified in the statement, The READ privilege on the global variable, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the global
variable

Database administrator authority

SyntaxCONNECTTOserver-namevariableauthorizationRESETauthorizationUSERauthorization-namevariableUSINGpasswordvariable
DescriptionTO server-name or variable
Identifies the application
server by the specified server name or the server name contained in
the variable. It can be a global variable if it is
qualified with schema name. If a variable is specified: It must be a CHAR or VARCHAR host variable.
It must not be followed by an indicator variable.
The server name must be left-justified within the variable and
must conform to the rules for forming an ordinary identifier.
If the length of the server name is less than the length of the
variable, it must be padded on the right with blanks.

When the CONNECT statement is executed, the specified server
name or the server name contained in the variable must identify an
application server described in the local directory and the activation
group must be in the connectable state.
If the server-name is
a local relational database and an authorization-name is
specified, it must be the user of the job. If the specified authorization-name is
different than the user of the job, an error occurs and the application
is left in the unconnected state.

USER authorization-name or variable
Identifies the authorization
name that will be used to connect to the application server. It can be a global variable if it is qualified with schema
name. If a variable is specified,
It must be a CHAR or VARCHAR host variable.
It must not be followed by an indicator variable.
The authorization name must be left-justified within the variable
and must conform to the rules of forming an authorization name.
If the length of the authorization name is less than the length
of the variable, it must be padded on the right with blanks.
The value of the server name must not contain lowercase characters.

USING password or variable
Identifies the password
that will be used to connect to the application server. If password
is specified as a literal, it must be a character string. The maximum
length is 128 characters. It must be left justified. The literal form
of the password is not allowed in static SQL or REXX.
If a variable is
specified,
It cannot be a global variable.
It must be a CHAR or VARCHAR host variable.
It must not be followed by an indicator variable.
The password must be left-justified within the variable.
If the length of the password is less than that of the variable,
it must be padded on the right with blanks.

RESET
CONNECT
RESET is equivalent to CONNECT TO x where x is the local server name.
CONNECT with no operand
This form of the CONNECT statement returns information about the
current server and has no effect on connection states, open cursors,
prepared statements, or locks. The connection information is returned
in the connection information items in the SQL Diagnostics Area (or
the SQLCA).

NotesSuccessful
connection: If the CONNECT statement is successful:
All open cursors are closed, all prepared statements are destroyed,
and all locks are released from the current connection.
The activation group is disconnected from all current and dormant
connections, if any, and connected to the identified application server.
The name of the application server is placed in the CURRENT SERVER
special register.
Information about the application server is placed in the connection-information-items in
the SQL Diagnostics Area.
Information about the application server is also placed in the
SQLERRP and SQLERRD(4) fields of the SQLCA. If the application server
is an IBM® relational database
product, the information in the SQLERRP field has the form pppvvrrm,
where: ppp identifies the product as follows:
ARI for DB2 for VM and VSE
DSN for DB2 for z/OS®
QSQ for DB2 for
i
SQL for all other DB2 products

vv is a two-digit version identifier
such as '09'
rr is a two-digit release identifier
such as '01'
m is a one-character modification level
such as '0'

For example, if the application server is Version 9 of DB2 for z/OS, the value of SQLERRP is 'DSN09010'.
The
SQLERRD(4) field of the SQLCA contains values indicating whether the
application server allows committable updates to be performed. For
a CONNECT (type 1) statement SQLERRD(4) will always contain the value
1. The value 1 indicates that committable updates can be performed,
and the connection:
Uses an unprotected conversation1,
or
Is a connection to an application requester driver program using
the *RUW connection method, or
Is a local connection using the *RUW connection method.

Additional information about the connection is placed in the SQLERRMC
field of the SQLCA. Refer to SQLCA (SQL communication area)

Unsuccessful connection: If the CONNECT statement
is unsuccessful, the DB2_MODULE_DETECTING_ERROR condition information
item in the SQL Diagnostics Area (or the SQLERRP field of the SQLCA)
is set to the name of the module at the application requester that
detected the error. Note that the first three characters of the module
name identify the product. For example, if the application requester
is DB2 LUW for Windows the first three characters
are 'SQL'.
If the CONNECT statement is unsuccessful because the activation
group is not in the connectable state, the connection state of the
activation group is unchanged.
If the CONNECT statement is unsuccessful for any other
reason:
The activation group remains in a connectable, but unconnected
state
All open cursors are closed, all prepared statements are destroyed,
and all locks are released from all current and dormant connections.

An application in a connectable but unconnected state
can only execute the CONNECT or SET CONNECTION statements.
Implicit connect:
When running in the default activation group, the SQL program
implicitly connects to a remote relational database when: The activation group is in a connectable state.
The first SQL statement in the first SQL program on the program
stack is executed.

When running in a non-default activation group, the SQL program
implicitly connects to a remote relational database when the first
SQL statement in the first SQL program for that activation group is
executed.

Note: It is a good practice for the first SQL statement
executed by an activation group to be the CONNECT statement.
When APPC is used for connecting to an RDB, implicit connect
always sends the authorization-name of the
application requester job and does not send passwords. If the authorization-name of
the application server job is different, or if a password must be
sent, an explicit connect statement must be used.
When TCP/IP is used for connecting to an RDB, an implicit
connect is not bound by the above restrictions. Use of the ADDSVRAUTE
and other -SVRAUTE commands allows one to specify, for a given user
under which the implicit (or explicit) CONNECT is done, the remote
authorization-name and password to be used in connecting to a given
RDB.
In order for the password to be stored with the ADDSVRAUTE
or CHGSVRAUTE command, the QRETSVRSEC system value must be set to
'1' rather than the default of '0'. When using these commands for DRDA® connection, it is very important
to realize that the value of the RDB name entered into the SERVER
parameter must be in UPPER CASE. For more information, see Example
2 under Type 2 CONNECT.
For more information about implicit connect, refer to
the SQL
Programming topic collection. Once a connection to a relational
database for a user profile is established, the password, if specified,
may not be validated again on subsequent connections to the same relational
database with the same user profile. Revalidation of the password
depends on if the conversation is still active. See the Distributed
Database Programming topic collection for more details.
Connection states: For a description of connection
states, see Remote unit of work connection management.
Consecutive CONNECT statements can be executed successfully because
CONNECT does not remove the activation group from the connectable
state.
A CONNECT to either a current or dormant connection in
the application group is executed as follows:
If the connection identified by the server-name was established
using a CONNECT (type 1) statement, then no action is taken. Cursors
are not closed, prepared statements are not destroyed, and locks are
not released.
If the connection identified by the server-name was established
using a CONNECT (type 2) statement, then the CONNECT statement is
executed like any other CONNECT statement.

CONNECT cannot execute successfully when it is preceded
by any SQL statement other than CONNECT, COMMIT, DISCONNECT, SET CONNECTION,
RELEASE, or ROLLBACK. To avoid an error, execute a commit or rollback
operation before a CONNECT statement is executed.
If any previous current or dormant connections were established
using protected conversations, then the CONNECT (type 1) statement
will fail. Either, a CONNECT (type 2) statement must be used, or the
connections using protected conversations must be ended by releasing
the connections and successfully committing.
For more information about connecting to a remote relational
database and the local directory, see SQL Programming and
the Distributed
Database Programming.
SET SESSION AUTHORIZATION: If a SET SESSION AUTHORIZATION
statement has been executed in the thread, a CONNECT to the local
server will fail unless prior to the connect statement, the SYSTEM_USER
value is the same as SESSION_USER.
This includes an implicit connect due to invoking a program
that specifies ACTGRP(*NEW).
ExamplesExample 1: In a C program,
connect to the application server TOROLAB.
EXEC SQL CONNECT TO TOROLAB;

Example 2: In a C program, connect to an application
server whose name is stored in the variable APP_SERVER (VARCHAR(18)).
Following a successful connection, copy the product identifier of
the application server to the variable PRODUCT.
void main ()
{
char product[9] = " ";
EXEC SQL BEGIN DECLARE SECTION;
char APP_SERVER[19];
char username[11];
char userpass[129];
EXEC SQL END DECLARE SECTION;
EXEC SQL INCLUDE SQLCA;
strcpy(APP_SERVER,"TOROLAB");
strcpy(username,"JOE");
strcpy(userpass,"XYZ1");
EXEC SQL CONNECT TO :APP_SERVER
USER :username USING :userpass;
if (strncmp(SQLSTATE, "00000", 5) )
{ EXEC SQL GET DIAGNOSTICS CONDITION 1
product = DB2_PRODUCT_ID; }
...
return;
}

Parent topic: Statements

1 To reduce the possibility
of confusion between network connections and SQL connections, in this
book the term 'conversation' will be used to apply to network connections
over TCP/IP as well as over APPC, even though it formally applies
only to APPC connections.