Overriding display files in a CL procedure or program (OVRDSPF command)

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Working with files in CL programs or procedures > Working with files in CL programs or procedures

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Working with files in CL programs or procedures

Overriding display files in a CL procedure or program (OVRDSPF command)
The Override with Display File (OVRDSPF) command
can be used to replace the display file named in a CL procedure or program
or to change certain parameters of the existing display file.
This can be especially useful for files that have been renamed or moved since
the module or program was compiled.
The initial parameters of the OVRDSPF command
are:
OVRDSPF FILE(overridden-file-name) TOFILE(new-file-name)
DEV(device-name)
The OVRDSPF command is valid for a file
referred to by a CL procedure or program only if the file specified on the
DCLF command was a display file when the module or program was created. The
file used when the program is run must be of the same type as the file referred
to when the module or program was created.
You must run the OVRDSPF command
before opening the file that is being overridden. An open is caused by the
first use of a send or receive command. The system overrides the file on finding
any of the following conditions:
A procedure or program that contains the OVRDSPF command
opens the file.
The file opens in another procedure which transfers control by using the
CALLPRC command.
The file opens in another program which transfers control by using the
CALL command.

When you override to a different file, only those record format names
referred to on the Send File (SNDF), Receive File
(RCVF), or Send/Receive File (SNDRCVF) command
need to be in the overriding file. In the following illustration, display
file FILEY does not need record format TWO or THREE.
You should make sure that
the record format referred to names of the original file and the overriding
files have the same field definitions and indicator names in the same order.
You may get unexpected results if you specify LVLCHK(*NO).
Another
consideration has to do with the DEV parameter on the SNDF, RCVF,
and SNDRCVF commands when an OVRDSPF command
is applied. If *FILE is specified on the DEV parameter of the RCVF, SNDF,
or SNDRCVF command, the system automatically directs the
operation to the correct device for the overridden file. If a specific device
is specified on the DEV keyword of the RCVF, SNDF, or SNDRCVF command, one
of the following may occur:
If a single device display file is being used, an error will occur if
the display file is overridden to a device other than the one specified on
the RCVF, SNDF, or SNDRCVF command.
If a multiple device display file is being used, an error will occur if
the device specified on the RCVF, SNDF,
or SNDRCVF command is not among those specified on the OVRDSPF command.

Parent topic: Working with files in CL programs or procedures

Related information
Override with Display File (OVRDSPF) command
Send File (SNDF) command
Receive File (RCVF) command
Send/Receive File (SNDRCVF) command