String representations of datetime values

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Data types > Datetime values > Datetime values

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Data types > Datetime values

String representations of datetime values
Values whose data types are DATE, TIME, or TIMESTAMP are
represented in an internal form that is transparent to the user of
SQL. Dates, times, and timestamps, however, can also be represented
by character or Unicode graphic strings.
To be retrieved, a datetime value can be assigned to a
string variable. The format of the resulting string will depend on
the default date format and the default time format in
effect when the statement was prepared. The default date and time
formats are set based on the date format (DATFMT), the date separator
(DATSEP), the time format (TIMFMT), and the time separator (TIMSEP)
parameters.
When a valid string representation of a datetime value
is used in an operation with an internal datetime value, the string
representation is converted to the internal form of the date, time,
or timestamp before the operation is performed. The default date
format and default time format specifies the date and time
format that will be used to interpret the string. If the CCSID of
the string represents a foreign encoding scheme (for example, ASCII),
it is first converted to the coded character set identified by the
default CCSID before the string is converted to the internal form
of the datetime value.
The following sections define the valid string representations
of datetime values.

Date strings
A string representation of a date is a character or a Unicode
graphic string that starts with a digit and has a length of at least
6 characters. Trailing blanks can be included. Leading zeros can be
omitted from the month and day portions when using the IBM® SQL standard formats. Each IBM SQL standard format is identified by name
and includes an associated abbreviation (for use by the CHAR function).
Other formats do not have an abbreviation to be used by the CHAR function.
The separators for two-digit year formats are controlled by the date
separator (DATSEP) parameter.
Time strings
A string representation of a time is a character or a Unicode
graphic string that starts with a digit and has a length of at least
4 characters. Trailing blanks can be included; a leading zero can
be omitted from the hour part of the time and seconds can be omitted
entirely. If you choose to omit seconds, an implicit specification
of 0 seconds is assumed. Thus, 13.30 is equivalent to 13.30.00.
Timestamp strings
A string representation of a timestamp is a character or
a Unicode graphic string that starts with a digit and has a length
of at least 14 characters.

Parent topic: Datetime values