DISCONNECT

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

DISCONNECT
The DISCONNECT statement ends one or more connections for
unprotected conversations.
InvocationThis statement can only be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that cannot be dynamically prepared. It must not be specified
in Java™ or REXX.
DISCONNECT is not allowed in a trigger or function.
Authorization If a global variable
is referenced in a statement, the privileges held by the authorization
ID of the statement must include at least one of the following:
For the global variable identified in the statement, The READ privilege on the global variable, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the global
variable

Database administrator authority

SyntaxDISCONNECTserver-namevariableCURRENTALLSQL
Descriptionserver-name or variable
Identifies the application
server by the specified server name or the server name contained in
the variable. It can be a global variable if it is qualified with
schema name. If a variable is specified: It must be a character-string variable.
It must not be followed by an indicator variable.
The server name must be left-justified within the variable and
must conform to the rules for forming an ordinary identifier.
If the length of the server name is less than the length of the
variable, it must be padded on the right with blanks.

When the DISCONNECT statement is executed, the specified server
name or server name contained in the variable must identify an existing
dormant or current connection of the activation group. The identified
connection cannot use a protected conversation.

CURRENT
Identifies
the current connection of the activation group. The activation group
must be in the connected state. The current connection must not use
a protected conversation.
ALL or ALL SQL
Identifies
all existing connections of the activation group (local as well as
remote connections). An error or warning does not occur if no connections
exist when the statement is executed. None of the connections can
use protected conversations.

NotesDISCONNECT
and CONNECT (Type 1): Using CONNECT (Type 1) semantics does not
prevent using DISCONNECT.
Connection restrictions: An identified connection
must not be a connection that was used to execute SQL statements during
the current unit of work and must not be a connection for a protected
conversation. To end connections on protected conversations, use the
RELEASE statement. Local connections are never considered to be protected
conversations.
The DISCONNECT statement should be executed immediately
after a commit operation. If DISCONNECT is used to end the current
connection, the next executed SQL statement must be CONNECT or SET
CONNECTION.
ROLLBACK does not reconnect a connection that has been
ended by DISCONNECT.
Successful disconnect: If the DISCONNECT statement
is successful, each identified connection is ended. If the current
connection is destroyed, the activation group is placed in the unconnected
state.
DISCONNECT closes cursors, releases resources, and prevents
further use of the connection.
DISCONNECT ALL ends the connection to the local application
server. A connection is ended even though it has an open cursor defined
with the WITH HOLD clause.
Unsuccessful disconnect: If the DISCONNECT statement
is unsuccessful, the connection state of the activation group and
the states of its connections are unchanged.
Resource considerations for remote connections: Resources
are required to create and maintain remote connections. Thus, a remote
connection that is not going to be reused should be ended as soon
as possible and a remote connection that is going to be reused should
not be destroyed.
ExamplesExample 1: The connection
to TOROLAB1 is no longer needed. The following statement is executed
after a commit operation.
EXEC SQL DISCONNECT TOROLAB1;

Example 2: The current connection is no longer
needed. The following statement is executed after a commit operation.
EXEC SQL DISCONNECT CURRENT;

Example 3: The existing connections are no longer
needed. The following statement is executed after a commit operation.
EXEC SQL DISCONNECT ALL;

Parent topic: Statements