Interpreting Selection Subjects and Selection Objects

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > EVALUATE Statement > EVALUATE Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > EVALUATE Statement

Interpreting Selection Subjects and Selection Objects
Operands before the WHEN phrase

Individually, they are called selection subjects.
Collectively, they are called a set of selection subjects.

Operands in the WHEN phrase

Individually, they are called selection objects.
Collectively, they are called a set of selection objects.

ALSO
Separates selection subjects within a set of selection subjects; separates selection objects within a set of selection objects.
THROUGH and THRU
Are equivalent. Two operands connected by a THRU phrase must be of the same class. The two operands thus connected constitute a single selection object.

The number of selection objects within each set of selection objects must be equal to the number of selection subjects. Each selection object within a set of selection objects must correspond to the selection subject having the same ordinal position within the set of selection subjects, according to the following rules:
Identifiers, literals, or arithmetic expressions appearing within a selection object must be valid operands for comparison to the corresponding operand in the set of selection subjects.
Condition-1, condition-2, or the word TRUE or FALSE appearing as a selection object must correspond to a conditional expression or the word TRUE or FALSE in the set of selection subjects.
Condition-1, and condition-2 may be any form of a conditional expression.
The word ANY may correspond to a selection subject of any type.
Conditional expressions may be simple or complex conditions.

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Where numeric literals are permitted, floating-point literals are permitted.
Identifiers can reference items whose usage is implicitly or explicitly defined as POINTER or PROCEDURE-POINTER.
Identifiers can reference DBCS, national, or floating-point data items.
Identifiers can reference date-time data items.
Where nonnumeric literals are permitted,
DBCS and national literals are permitted also.

End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension See also:
END-EVALUATE Phrase
Determining Values
Comparing Selection Subjects and Objects
Executing the EVALUATE Statement

Parent topic: EVALUATE Statement