Arguments

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Intrinsic Functions > Intrinsic Functions

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Intrinsic Functions

Arguments
The values returned by some functions are determined by the arguments specified
in the function-identifier when the functions are evaluated. Some functions
require no arguments; others require a fixed number of arguments; and still
others allow a variable number of arguments.
An argument must be one of the following:
An identifier
An arithmetic expression
A function-identifier
A literal other than a figurative constant
A special-register
A mnemonic-name
A keyword.

The argument to a function can be any function or expression containing
a function, including another evaluation of the same function, whose result
meets the category requirement for the argument.
See Function Definitions for function specific argument specifications.
The types of arguments are:
Alphabetic
An elementary data item of the class alphabetic or a nonnumeric literal
containing only alphabetic characters. The content of the argument is used
to determine the value of the function. The length of the argument can be
used to determine the value of the function.
Alphanumeric
A data item of the class alphabetic or alphanumeric or a nonnumeric
literal. The content of the argument will be used to determine the value of
the function. The length of the argument can be used to determine the value
of the function.

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Boolean
A data item of class boolean, or a boolean literal.
DBCS
A data item of the class DBCS or a DBCS literal. The content of the
argument is used to determine the value of the function. The length of the
argument can be used to determine the value of the function.
National
A data item of the class NATIONAL or a national literal.
The content of the argument is used to determine the value of the function.
The length of the argument can be used to determine the value of the function.
Date-Time
An data item of the class date-time. The content of the argument is
used to determine the value of the function. The length of the argument can
be used to determine the value of the function.

End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension Index
An index data item. The size associated with the argument may be used
in determining the value of the argument.
Integer
An arithmetic expression that always results in an integer value. The
value of this expression, including its sign, is used to determine the value
of the function.
Numeric
An arithmetic expression, whose value, including its sign, is used to
determine the value of the function.

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Keyword
A keyword should be specified in accordance with the function definition.
Mnemonic-Name
A mnemonic-name defined in the SPECIAL-NAMES paragraph shall be specified.
The feature associated with the mnemonic-name may be used in determining the
value of the function.
Pointer
A pointer identifier. The size associated with the argument may be used
in determining the value of the function.
Type Declaration
A type-name shall be specified. The size associated with the type declaration
may be used in determining the value of the function.
Special-Register
A special-register should be specified in accordance with the function
definition. The information associated with the special-register may be used
in determining the value of the function.

End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension Some functions place constraints on their arguments, such as the range
of values acceptable. If the values assigned as arguments for a function
do not comply with specified constraints, the returned value is undefined.
If a nested function is used as an argument, the evaluation of its arguments
will not be affected by the arguments in the outer function.
Only those arguments at the same function level interact with each other.
This interaction occurs in two areas:
The computation of an arithmetic expression that appears as a function
argument will be affected by other arguments for that function.
The evaluation of the function takes into consideration the attributes
of all of its arguments.

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Floating-point literals are allowed wherever a numeric argument is allowed,
and in arithmetic expressions that are used in functions that allow a numeric
argument. They are not allowed where an integer argument
is required.

External floating-point items are allowed wherever a numeric argument is
allowed, and in arithmetic expressions that are used in functions that allow
a numeric argument.

External floating-point items are not allowed where
an integer argument is required, or where an argument of alphanumeric class
is allowed in a function identification, such as in the LOWER-CASE, REVERSE,
UPPER-CASE, NUMVAL, and NUMVAL-C functions.
End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

Order of Precedence for the Evaluation of Function Arguments

Parent topic: Intrinsic Functions