Routines

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Concepts > Concepts

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Concepts

Routines
A routine is an executable SQL object.
There are two types of routines.
FunctionsA function is
a routine that can be invoked from within other SQL statements and
returns a value or a table. For more information, see Functions.
Functions are classified
as either SQL functions or external functions. SQL functions are written
using SQL statements, which are also known collectively as SQL procedural
language. External functions reference a host language program which
may or may not contain SQL statements.
A function is
created with the CREATE FUNCTION statement. For more information about
creating functions, see CREATE FUNCTION.
ProceduresA procedure (sometimes called
a stored procedure) is a routine that can be called to perform
operations that can include both host language statements and SQL
statements.
Procedures are classified as either SQL procedures
or external procedures. SQL procedures are written using SQL statements,
which are also known collectively as SQL procedural language. External
procedures reference a host language program which may or may not
contain SQL statements.
A procedure is created with the
CREATE PROCEDURE statement. For more information about creating procedures,
see CREATE PROCEDURE.
Procedures in SQL
provide the same benefits as procedures in a host language. That is,
a common piece of code need only be written and maintained once and
can be called from several programs. Both host languages and SQL can
call procedures that exist on the local system. However, SQL can also
call a procedure that exists on a remote system. In fact, the major
benefit of procedures in SQL is that they can be used to enhance the
performance characteristics of distributed applications.
Assume
that several SQL statements must be executed at a remote system. There
are two ways this can be done. Without procedures, when the first
SQL statement is executed, the application requester will send a request
to an application server to perform the operation. It then waits for
a reply that indicates whether the statement is executed successfully
or not and optionally returns results. When the second and each subsequent
SQL statement is executed, the application requester will send another
request and wait for another reply.
If the same SQL statements
are stored in a procedure at an application server, a CALL statement
can be executed that references the remote procedure. When the CALL
statement is executed, the application requester will send a single
request to the current server to call the procedure. It will then
wait for a single reply that indicates whether the procedure executed
successfully or not and optionally returns results.
The following
two figures illustrate the way stored procedures can be used in a
distributed application to eliminate some of the remote requests. Figure 1 shows a program making many
remote requests.
Figure 1. Application Without Remote
Procedure
Figure 2. Application With Remote Procedure

Parent topic: Concepts