Position 21 (Sequence)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > File Description Specifications > Traditional File Description Specification Statement > Traditional File Description Specification Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > File Description Specifications > Traditional File Description Specification Statement

Position 21 (Sequence)

Free-Form Syntax

(Not supported for a free-form file
definition)

Entry
Explanation

A or blank

Match fields are in ascending sequence.

D

Match fields are in descending sequence.

Position 21 specifies the sequence of input fields used with the
match fields specification (positions 65 and 66 of the input specifications).
Position 21 applies only to input, update, or combined files used
as primary or secondary files. Use positions 65 and 66 of the input
specifications to identify the fields containing the sequence information.

If more than one input file with match fields is specified in the
program, a sequence entry in position 21 can be used to check the
sequence of the match fields and to process the file using the matching
record technique. The sequence need only be specified for the first
file with match fields specified. If sequence is specified for other
files, the sequence specified must be the same; otherwise, the sequence
specified for the first file is assumed.

If only one input file with match fields is specified in the program,
a sequence entry in position 21 can be used to check fields of that
file to ensure that the file is in sequence. By entering one of the
codes M1 through M9 in positions 65 and 66 of the input specifications,
and by entering an A, blank, or D in position 21, you specify sequence
checking of these fields.

Sequence checking is required when match fields are used in the
records from the file. When a record from a matching input file is
found to be out of sequence, the RPG IV exception/error handling
routine is given control.

Parent topic: Traditional File Description Specification Statement