CL programs and procedures

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL concepts

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts

CL programs and procedures
CL programs and procedures are created from source statements that
consist entirely of CL commands.
A CL source program is the set of CL source
statements that can be compiled into either an original program model (OPM)
program or an Integrated Language Environment® (ILE) module that can be bound into programs made
up of modules written in CL or other languages.
Advantages of using CL programs and procedures include:
Using CL programs and procedures is faster than entering and running
the commands individually.
CL programs and procedures provide consistent processing of the same set
of commands and logic.
Some functions require CL commands that cannot be entered individually
and must be part of a CL program or procedure.
CL programs and procedures can be tested and debugged like other high-level
language (HLL) programs and procedures.
Parameters can be passed to CL programs and procedures to adapt the operations
performed by the CL program or procedure to the particular requirements of
that use.
You can bind CL modules with other ILE high-level language modules into
a program.

CL programs and procedures can be used for many kinds of applications.
For example, CL procedures can be used to:
Provide an interface to the user of an interactive application through
which the user can request application functions without an understanding
of the commands used in the program or procedure. This makes the workstation
user's job easier and reduces the chances of errors occurring when commands
are entered.
Control the operation of an application by establishing variables used
in the application (such as date, time, and external indicators) and specifying
the library list used by the application. This ensures that these operations
are performed whenever the application is run.
Provide predefined routines for the system operator, such as procedures
to start a subsystem, to provide backup copies of files, or to perform other
operating functions. The use of CL programs and procedures reduces the number
of commands the operator uses regularly, and ensures that system operations
are performed consistently.

Most of the CL commands provided by the system can be used in CL programs
and procedures. Some commands are specifically designed for use in CL programs
and procedures and are not available when commands are entered individually.
These commands include:
Logic control commands that can be used to control which operations are
performed by the program or procedure according to conditions that exist when
the program or procedure is run. For example, if a certain condition
exists, then do certain processing, else do some other operation.
These logic operations provide both conditional and unconditional branching
within the CL program or procedure.
Data operations that provide a way for the program or procedure to communicate
with a workstation user. Data operations let the program or procedure send
formatted data to and receive data from the workstation, and allow limited
access to the database.
Commands that allow the program or procedure to send messages to the display
station user.
Commands that receive messages sent by other programs and procedures.
These messages can provide normal communication between programs and procedures,
or indicate that errors or other exceptional conditions exist.
The use of variables and parameters for passing information between commands
in the program or procedure and between programs and procedures.
Commands that call other procedures. (Procedures cannot be called from
the command line or in the batch job stream.)

Using CL programs and procedures, applications can be designed with a separate
program or procedure for each function, and with a CL program or procedure
controlling which programs or procedures are run within the application. The
application can consist of both CL and other HLL programs or procedures. In
this type of application, CL programs or procedures are used to:
Determine which programs or procedures in the application are to be run.
Provide system functions that are not available through other HLL languages.
Provide interaction with the application user.

CL programs and procedures provide the flexibility needed to let the application
user select what operations to perform and run the necessary procedures.
There are four types of CL programs and procedures: procedure, module,
program, and service program.

CL procedure
A procedure is a set of self-contained high-level
language statements that performs a particular task and then returns to the
caller.
CL module
A module is the object that results from compiling
high-level language source statements using an Integrated Language
Environment (ILE) compiler.
CL program
A control language (CL) program is a program that
is created from source statements consisting entirely of CL commands. The
operating system supports two types of programs: ILE program and OPM CL program.
Service program
A service program is an i5/OS® object
that contains one or more modules.

Parent topic: CL concepts