Generic object names searching

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Libraries > Library lists > Using library lists to search for objects > Using library lists to search for objects

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Libraries > Library lists > Using library lists to search for objects

Generic object names searching
A generic search can be used to search for more than one object.
Sometimes you may want to search for more than one object (even though
only one might be found) when the object names start with the same characters.
This type of search is called a generic search and can be used on several
commands.
To use a generic search, specify a generic name in place of the object
name on the command. A generic name consists of a set of characters common
to all the object names that identifies a group of objects and ends with an
* (asterisk). All objects whose names begin with the specified characters
and to which you are authorized have the requested function performed on them.
For example, if you entered the Display Object Description (DSPOBJD) command
using the generic name ORD*, object descriptions for the objects beginning
with ORD are shown.
A generic search can be limited by the following library qualifiers on
the generic name (the library name parameter value is given in parentheses,
if applicable):
A specified library. The operation you requested is performed on the generically
named objects in the specified library only.
The library list for the job (*LIBL). The libraries are searched in the
order they are listed in the library list. The operation you requested is
performed on the generically named objects in the libraries specified in the
library list for the job.
The current library for the job (*CURLIB). The current library for the
job is searched. If no current library exists, QGPL is used.
All libraries in the user part of the library list for the job (*USRLIBL).
The libraries are searched in the order they are listed in the library list,
including the current library (*CURLIB). The operation you requested is performed
on the generically named objects in the libraries specified in the user portion
of the library list for the job.
All user libraries for which you are authorized (*ALLUSR) and libraries
beginning with the letter Q.
The libraries are searched in alphanumeric order. The following S/36 environment
libraries that begin with # are not searched with *ALLUSR specified: #CGULIB,
#COBLIB, #DFULIB, #DSULIB, #RPGLIB, #SDALIB, and #SEULIB. The operation you
requested is performed on the generically named objects in all the user libraries
for which you are authorized.
All libraries on the system for which you are authorized (*ALL). The libraries
are searched in alphanumeric order. The operation you requested is performed
on the generically named objects in all the libraries on the system for which
you are authorized.

Parent topic: Using library lists to search for objects

Related tasks
Creating a library
Deleting objects

Related information
Generic library names