XMLTABLE

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Table functions > Table functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Table functions

XMLTABLE
The XMLTABLE function returns a result table from the evaluation
of XPath expressions, possibly using specified input arguments as
XPath variables. Each item in the result sequence of the row XPath
expression represents a row of the result table.
XMLTABLE(xmlnamespaces-declaration,row-xquery-expression-constantPASSINGBY VALUE,row-xquery-argument1COLUMNS,xml-table-regular-column-definitionxml-table-ordinality-column-definition2)row-xquery-argumentxquery-context-item-expressionxquery-variable-expressionASidentifierBY VALUExml-table-regular-column-definitioncolumn-namedata-typeBY VALUE3default-clausePATHcolumn-xquery-expression-constantxml-table-ordinality-column-definitioncolumn-nameFOR ORDINALITY
data-typeSMALLINTINTEGERINTBIGINTDECIMALDECNUMERICNUM(5,0)(integer,0, integer)FLOAT(52)(integer)REALDOUBLEPRECISIONDECFLOAT(34)(16)CHARACTERCHAR(1)(integer)CHARACTERCHARVARYINGVARCHAR(integer)FOR SBCS DATAFOR MIXED DATAccsid-clauseCHARACTERCHARLARGE OBJECTCLOB(1M)(integerKMG)FOR SBCS DATAFOR MIXED DATAccsid-clauseGRAPHIC(1)(integer)GRAPHIC VARYINGVARGRAPHIC(integer)DBCLOB(1M)(integerKMG)ccsid-clauseNATIONAL CHARACTERNATIONAL CHARNCHAR(1)(integer)NATIONAL CHARACTERNATIONAL CHARNCHARVARYINGNVARCHAR(integer)NATIONAL CHARACTERNCHARLARGE OBJECTNCLOB(1M)(integerKMG)normalize-clauseDATETIME(0)TIMESTAMP(6)(integer)XMLccsid-clauseccsid-clauseCCSIDintegernormalize-clausenormalize-clauseNOT NORMALIZEDNORMALIZEDdefault-clauseWITHDEFAULTconstantNULLCURRENT_DATECURRENT_TIMECURRENT_TIMESTAMPUSER
The function name cannot be specified as a qualified name.
xmlnamespaces-declaration
Specifies one or more XML namespace declarations, using the XMLNAMESPACES
function, that become part of the static context of the row-xquery-expression-constant and
the column-xquery-expression-constant. The set of statically
known namespaces for XPath expressions which are arguments of XMLTABLE
is the combination of the pre-established set of statically known
namespaces and the namespace declarations specified in this clause.
The XPath prolog within an XPath expression can override these namespaces.If xmlnamespaces-declaration is
not specified, only the pre-established set of statically known namespaces
apply to the XPath expressions.

row-xquery-expression-constant
Specifies an SQL string constant that is interpreted as an XPath
expression using supported XPath language syntax. This expression
determines the number of rows in the result table. The expression
is evaluated using the optional set of input XML values that is specified
in row-xquery-argument, and returns an output XPath sequence
where one row is generated for each item in the sequence. If the sequence
is empty, the result of XMLTABLE is an empty table. row-xquery-expression-constant must
not be an empty string or a string of all blanks.
PASSING
Specifies input values and the manner in which these values are
passed to the XPath expression specified by row-xquery-expression-constant.BY VALUE
Specifies that any XML arguments are passed by value. When XML
values are passed by value, the XPath evaluation uses a copy of the
XML data. This is the default behavior. DB2® for
i binds the XPath variable expression to a document node that represents
the XML input value.This clause has no impact on how non-XML values
are passed. Non-XML values always create a copy of the value during
the cast to XML.

row-xquery-argument
Specifies an argument that is to be passed to the XPath expression
specified by row-xquery-expression-constant. row-xquery-argument specifies
an SQL expression that is evaluated before being passed to the XPath
expression.If the data type of row-xquery-argument is not
XML, the result of the expression is converted to XML. For xquery-variable-expression,
a null value is converted to an XML empty sequence.
How row-xquery-argument is
used in the XPath expression depends on whether the argument is specified
as an xquery-context-item-expression or an xquery-variable-expression.
row-xquery-argument must
not contain a NEXT VALUE or PREVIOUS VALUE expression or an OLAP specification.
xquery-context-item-expression
Specifies an SQL expression that returns a value that is XML or
that is a type that has a supported conversion to XML.xquery-context-item-expression specifies
the initial context item for the row-xquery-expression. The
value of the initial context item is the result of xquery-context-item-expression after
being converted to XML. xquery-context-item-expression must
not be specified more than one time.

xquery-variable-expression
Specifies an SQL expression whose value is available to the XPath
expression specified by row-xquery-expression-constant during
execution. The expression must return a value that is XML or that
is a type that has a supported conversion to XML.xquery-variable-expression specifies
an argument that will be passed to row-xquery-expression-constant as
an XPath variable. If xquery-variable-expression is the null
value, the XPath variable is set to an XML empty sequence. The scope
of the XPath variables that are created from the PASSING clause is
the XPath expression specified by row-xquery-expression-constant.

AS identifier
Specifies that the value generated by xquery-variable-expression will
be passed to row-xquery-expression-constant as an XPath variable.
The identifier is a name that must be in the form of an XML
NCName. See the W3C XML namespace specifications for more details
on valid names. The leading dollar sign ($) that precedes variable
names in the XPath language must not be included as part of identifier.
The identifier must not be greater than 128 bytes in length. Two arguments
within the same PASSING clause cannot use the same identifier.
BY VALUE
Specifies that xquery-variable-expression is passed by
value. When XML values are passed by value, the XPath evaluation uses
a copy of the XML data. DB2 for
i binds the XPath variable expression to a document node that represents
the XML input value. If BY VALUE is not specified following xquery-variable-expression,
XML arguments are passed using the default passing mechanism that
is provided through the syntax that follows the PASSING keyword.
This clause is only valid for input values with the XML data type.
Non-XML values always create a copy of the value during the cast to
XML.

Table 1. Supported SQL to XML conversionsSQL type
XML type
Notes

SMALLINT
xs:integer
 

INTEGER
xs:integer
 

BIGINT
xs:integer
 

DECIMAL
NUMERIC

xs:decimal
Decimal numbers with a precision greater than
34 can lose precision during processing.

FLOAT
DOUBLE
DECFLOAT

xs:double
 

CHAR
VARCHAR
CLOB
GRAPHIC
VARGRAPHIC
DBCLOB

xs:string
When character string values are cast to XML
values, the resulting xs:string atomic value cannot contain illegal
XML characters. If the input character string is not in Unicode, the
input characters are converted to Unicode. CHAR and VARCHAR strings
cannot have a CCSID of 65535 or be defined for bit data.

DATE
xs:date
The xs:date value will not have a timezone component.
For comparisons, the timezone is implicitly assumed to be UTC.If
needed, the fn:adjust-timezone() function can be used to explicitly
set the timezone.

TIME
xs:time
The xs:time value will not have a timezone component.
For comparisons, the timezone is implicitly assumed to be UTC.If
needed, the fn:adjust-timezone() function can be used to explicitly
set the timezone.

TIMESTAMP
xs:dateTime
The xs:dateTime value will not have a timezone
component. For comparisons, the timezone is implicitly assumed to
be UTC.If needed, the fn:adjust-timezone() function can be used
to explicitly set the timezone.

COLUMNS
Specifies the output columns of the result table including the
column name, data type, and how the column value is computed for each
row. If this clause is not specified, a single unnamed column of type
XML is returned with the value based on the sequence item from evaluating
the XPath expression in the row-xquery-expression (equivalent
to specifying PATH '.'). To reference
this result column, a column-name must be specified in the correlation-clause following
the table function.The sum of all the result column lengths cannot
exceed 64K bytes. For information on the byte counts of columns according
to data type, see Maximum row sizes.
Assume the number of row-xquery-arguments is N. There must be no more than 8000-N columns.
xml-table-regular-column-definition
Specifies one output column of the result table including the
column name, data type, and an XPath expression to extract the value
from the sequence item for the row.column-name
Specifies the name of the column in the result table. The name
cannot be qualified and the same name cannot be used for more than
one column of the result table.
data-type
Specifies the data type of the column. For CHAR and VARCHAR columns,
the CCSID cannot be 65535.
BY VALUE
Specifies that the result column is returned by value. When XML
values are returned by value, a copy of the XML data is returned.
This is the default behavior. DB2 for
i constructs a document node for the XML result when the value is
returned from the table function. This clause must not be specified
for a column with a data type that is not XML.
default-clause
Specifies a default value for the column. For XMLTABLE result
columns, the default is applied when the processing of the XPath expression
contained in column-xquery-expression-constant returns an empty
sequence.
PATH column-xquery-expression-constant
Specifies a string constant that is interpreted as an XPath expression
using supported XPath language syntax. The column-xquery-expression-constant specifies
an XPath expression that determines the column value with respect
to an item that is the result of evaluating the XPath expression in row-xquery-expression-constant.
Given an item from the result of processing the row-query-expression-constant as
the externally provided context item, the column-xquery-expression-constant is
evaluated and returns an output sequence. The column value is determined
based on this output sequence as follows:If an empty sequence is returned, the default-clause provides
the value of the column.
If an empty sequence is returned and no default-clause was
specified, the null value is assigned to the column.
If a non-empty sequence is returned, the value is converted to
the data-type specified for the column. An error could be returned
from processing this implicit conversion.

The value for column-xquery-expression-constant must
not be an empty string or a string of all blanks. If this clause is
not specified, the default XPath expression is the column-name.

xml-table-ordinality-column-definition
Specifies the ordinality column of the result table.colum-name
Specifies the name of the column in the result table. The name
cannot be qualified and the same name cannot be used for more than
one column of the result table.
FOR ORDINALITY
Specifies that column-name is the ordinality column of
the result table. The data type of this column is BIGINT. The value
of this column in the result table is the sequential number of the
item for the row in the resulting sequence from evaluating the XPath
expression in row-xquery-expression-constant.

Table 2. Supported XML to SQL result column
conversionsXML type
SQL type
Notes

xs:integer
SMALLINT
INTEGER
BIGINT

xs:decimal
DECIMAL
NUMERIC

The resulting xs:decimal value is converted, if necessary,
to the precision and scale of the target data type. The necessary
number of leading zeros is added or removed. In the fractional part
of the number, the necessary number of trailing zeros is added or
the necessary number of digits is eliminated. This truncation behavior
is similar to the behavior of the cast from DECIMAL to DECIMAL. Decimal
numbers with a precision greater than 34 can lose precision during
processing.

xs:double
FLOAT
DOUBLE
REAL
DECFLOAT

If the target type is FLOAT, DOUBLE, or REAL and the source
XML value after the XPath cast is an xs:double value of INF, -INF,
or NaN, an error is returned. If the source value is an xs:double
negative zero, the value is converted to positive zero. If the source
value is beyond the range of the target data type, an overflow error
is returned. If the source value contains more significant digits
than the precision of the target data type, the source value is rounded
to the precision of the target data type.
If the target type
is DECFLOAT and the source XML value is an xs:double value of INF,
-INF, or NaN, the result will be the corresponding special DECFLOAT
values INF, -INF, or NaN. If the source value is an xs:double negative
zero, the result is negative zero. If the target type is DECFLOAT(16)
and the source value is beyond the range of DECFLOAT(16), an overflow
error is returned. If the source value has more than 16 significant
digits, the value is rounded according to the ROUNDING mode that is
in effect. This rounding behavior is the same as what is used during
the cast of DECFLOAT(34) to DECFLOAT(16).

xs:string
CHAR
VARCHAR
CLOB
GRAPHIC
VARGRAPHIC
DBCLOB

The resulting XML value is converted, if necessary, to the
CCSID of the target data type using the rules described in Conversion rules for assignments before
it is converted to the target type with a limited length. Truncation
occurs if the specified length limit is smaller than the length of
the resulting string after CCSID conversion. A warning occurs if any
non-blank characters are truncated. If the target type is a fixed-length
string type (CHAR or GRAPHIC) and the specified length of the target
type is greater than the length of the resulting string from CCSID
conversion, blanks are padded at the end. This truncation and padding
behavior is similar to retrieval assignment of character or graphic
strings.

xs:date
DATE
The resulting XML value is adjusted to UTC time and the time
zone component is removed. The year part of the resulting xs:date
value must be in the range of 0001 to 9999.

xs:time
TIME
The resulting XML value is adjusted to UTC time and the time
zone component is removed. Any fractional seconds are truncated from
the result.

xs:dateTime
TIMESTAMP
The resulting XML value is adjusted to UTC time and the time
zone component is removed. The year part of the resulting xs:dateTime
value must be in the range of 0001 to 9999. If the
target timestamp type has a precision less than 12, the fractional
seconds part of the xs:dateTime value is truncated to the target timestamp
precision.

The result of the function is a table. If the evaluation
of any of the XPath expressions results in an error, then the XMLTABLE
function returns the XPath error.ExampleList as a table result the purchase order items for orders with
a status of 'NEW'.SELECT U."PO ID", U."Part #", U."Product Name",
U."Quantity", U."Price", U."Order Date"
FROM PURCHASEORDER P,
XMLTABLE(XMLNAMESPACES('http://podemo.org' AS "pod"),
'$po/PurchaseOrder/itemlist/item' PASSING P.PORDER AS "po"
COLUMNS "PO ID" INTEGER PATH '../../@POid',
"Part #" CHAR(6) PATH 'product/@pid',
"Product Name" CHAR(50) PATH 'product/pod:name',
"Quantity" INTEGER PATH 'quantity',
"Price" DECIMAL(9,2) PATH 'product/pod:price',
"Order Date" TIMESTAMP PATH '../../dateTime'
) AS U
WHERE P.STATUS = 'NEW'

Parent topic: Table functions