MOD

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

MOD
The MOD function divides the first argument by the second
argument and returns the remainder.
MOD(expression-1,expression-2)
The formula used to calculate the remainder is:
  MOD(x,y) = x - (x/y) * y

where x/y is the truncated integer result of the division.
The result is negative only if first argument is negative.
expression-1
An expression that returns a value of any built-in numeric, character-string,
or graphic-string data type. A string argument is cast to double-precision
floating point before evaluating the function. For more information
about converting strings to double-precision floating point, see DOUBLE_PRECISION or DOUBLE.
expression-2
An expression that returns a value of any built-in numeric, character-string,
or graphic-string data type. A string argument is cast to double-precision
floating point before evaluating the function. For more information
about converting strings to double-precision floating point, see DOUBLE_PRECISION or DOUBLE. expression-2 cannot
be zero unless either argument is decimal floating-point.

If an argument can be null, the result can be null; if
an argument is null, the result is the null value.
The attributes of the result are determined as follows:
If both arguments are large or small integers with zero scale,
the data type of the result is large integer.
If both arguments are integers with zero scale and at least one
of the arguments is a big integer, the data type of the result is
big integer.
If one argument is an integer with zero scale and the other is
decimal, the result is decimal with the same precision and scale as
the decimal argument.
If both arguments are decimal or integer with scale numbers, the
result is decimal. The precision of the result is min (p-s,p'-s')
+ max (s,s'), and the scale of the result is max (s,s'), where the
symbols p and s denote the precision and scale of the first operand,
and the symbols p' and s' denote the precision and scale of the second
operand.
If either argument is floating point and the other
operand is not decimal floating-point, the data type of the result
is double-precision floating point. The operation is performed
in floating point. If necessary, the operands are first converted
to double precision floating-point numbers. For example, an operation
that involves a floating-point number and either an integer or a decimal
number is performed with a temporary copy of the integer or decimal
number that has been converted to double precision floating-point.
The result of a floating-point operation must be within the range
of floating-point numbers.

If either argument is decimal floating-point, the data type of
the result is DECFLOAT(34). If the argument is a special decimal floating-point
value, the general rules for arithmetic operations apply. See General arithmetic operation rules for DECFLOAT for more information.

If either argument is decimal floating-point and the second
operand evaluates to 0, the result is NaN and the invalid
operation warning (SQLSTATE 0168D) is issued.1 MOD(1, -Infinity) returns
the value 1.
ExamplesAssume the host variable M1 is an integer host variable with a
value of 5, and host variable M2 is an integer host variable with
a value of 2.   SELECT MOD(:M1,:M2)
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
Returns
the value 1.
Assume the host variable M1 is an integer host variable with a
value of 5, and host variable M2 is a DECIMAL(3,2) host variable with
a value of 2.20.   SELECT MOD(:M1,:M2)
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
Returns
the value 0.60.
Assume the host variable M1 is a DECIMAL(4,2) host variable with
a value of 5.50, and host variable M2 is a DECIMAL(4,1) host variable
with a value of 2.0.   SELECT MOD(:M1,:M2)
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
Returns
the value 1.50.

Parent topic: Scalar functions

1 If *YES is specified for the SQL_DECFLOAT_WARNINGS query
option, NaN is
returned with a warning. Otherwise, a division by zero warning or
error is returned.