Working with files in CL programs or procedures

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Objects and libraries

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries

Working with files in CL programs or procedures
Two types of files are supported in CL procedures and programs:
display files and database files.
You can send a display to a workstation and receive input from
the workstation for use in the procedure or program, or you can read data
from a database file for use in the procedure or program.
Note: Database
files are made available for use within the CL procedure or program through
the DCLF and Receive File (RCVF) commands.
To
use a file in a CL procedure or program, you must:
Format the display or database record, identifying fields and conditions
which you enter as DDS source. The use of DDS is not required for a database
file.
Create the file using the Create Display File (CRTDSPF) command, Create
Physical File (CRTPF) command, or Create Logical File (CRTLF) command.
Subfiles (except for message subfiles) are not supported by CL procedures
and programs.
For database files, add a member to the file using the Add Physical
File Member (ADDPFM) command or Add Logical File Member (ADDLFM)
command.
This is not required if a member was added by the CRTPF or CRTLF commands.
The file must have a member when the procedure or program is processed, but
does not need to have a member when the procedure or program is created.
Refer to the file in the CL procedure using the DCLF command, and refer
to the record format on the appropriate data manipulation CL commands in your
CL source.
Create the CL module.
Create the program or service program.

Up to five display or database files can be referred to in a CL procedure.
The support for database files and display files is similar as the same commands
are used. However, there are a few differences, which are described here.

The following statements apply only to database files used with CL procedures
and programs: Only database files with a single record format may be used by a CL procedure
or program.
The files may be either physical or logical files, and a logical file
may be defined over multiple physical file members.
Only input operations, with the RCVF command, are allowed. The WAIT and
DEV parameters on the Receive File (RCVF) command are not
allowed for database files. In addition, the SNDF, SNDRCVF, and ENDRCV commands
are not allowed for database files.
DDS is not required to create a physical file which is referred to in
a CL procedure or program. If DDS is not used to create a physical file, the
file has a record format with the same name as the file, and there is one
field in the record format with the same name as the file, and with the same
length as the record length of the file (RCDLEN parameter of the CRTPF command).
The file need not have a member when it is created for the module or program.
It must, however, have a member when the file is processed by the program.
The file is opened for input only when the first Receive File
(RCVF) command is processed. The file must exist and have a member
at that time.
The file remains open until the procedure or original program model (OPM)
program returns or when the end of file is reached. When end of file is reached,
message CPF0864 is sent to the CL procedure or program, and additional operations
are not allowed for the file. The procedure or program should monitor for
this message and take appropriate action when end of file is reached.

The following statements apply only to display files used with CL procedures
and programs: Display files may have up to 99 record formats.
All data manipulation commands (SNDF, SNDRCVF, RCVF, ENDRCV and WAIT)
are allowed for display files.
The display file must be defined with the DDS.
The display file is opened for both input and output when the first SNDF,
SNDRCVF, or RCVF command is processed. The file remains open until the procedure
or OPM program returns.

Note: The open does not occur for both types of files until the first
send or receive occurs. Because of this, the file to be used can be created
during the procedure or program and an override can be performed before the
first send or receive. However, the file must exist before the module or program
is compiled.
The format for the display is identified as a record
format in DDS. Each record format may contain fields (input, output, and
input/output), conditions/indicators, and constants. Several record formats
can be entered in one display file. The display file name, record format
name, and field names should be unique, because other high-level languages
(HLLs) may require it, even though CL procedures and programs do not.

Data manipulation commands
A CL procedure or program can use several commands called data
manipulation commands.
Files in a CL program or procedure
Files are accessed during compiling of Declare File (DCLF) commands
when CL modules and programs are created so that variables can be declared
for each field in the file.
Opening and closing files in a CL program or procedure
If you understand when and how files can be opened and closed,
you can share open data paths between running programs or procedures.
Declaring a file
The Declare File (DCLF) command is used to declare
a display or database file to your CL procedure or program. The Declare
File (DCLF) command cannot be used to declare files such as tape,
printer, and mixed files.
Sending and receiving data with a display file
The only commands you can use with a display file to send or receive
data in CL procedures and programs are the Send File (SNDF), Receive
File (RCVF), and Send/Receive File (SNDRCVF) commands.
Example: Writing a CL program or procedure to control a menu
This example shows how a CL program or procedure
can be written to display and control a menu.
Overriding display files in a CL procedure or program (OVRDSPF command)
The Override with Display File (OVRDSPF) command
can be used to replace the display file named in a CL procedure or program
or to change certain parameters of the existing display file.
This can be especially useful for files that have been renamed or moved since
the module or program was compiled.
Working with multiple device display files
A multiple device display configuration occurs when a single job
called by one requester communicates with multiple display stations through
one display file. While only one display file can be handled by a CL program
or procedure, the display file, or different record formats within it, can
be sent to several device displays.
Receiving data from a database file (RCVF command)
To receive data from a database file, use the Receive
File (RCVF) command.
Reading a file multiple times (CLOSE command)
The Close Database File (CLOSE) command can
be used to close a database file that is implicitly opened by the Receive
File (RCVF) command.
Overriding database files in a CL procedure or program (OVRDBF command)
The Override with Database File (OVRDBF) command
overrides the database file named in a CL procedure or program, or changes
certain parameters of the existing database file.
Output files from display commands
A number of the IBM® display commands place the output from the command
into a database file (OUTFILE parameter). The data in this file can be received
directly into a CL procedure or program and processed.

Parent topic: Objects and libraries

Related concepts
Parts of a CL source program

Related tasks
Accessing files

Related information
CL command finder
Application Display Programming