Moving Character, Graphic, UCS-2, and Numeric Data

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operations > Move Operations > Move Operations

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operations > Move Operations

Moving Character, Graphic, UCS-2, and Numeric Data

When a character field is moved into a numeric result field, the digit
portion of each character is converted to its corresponding numeric character
and then moved to the result field. Blanks are transferred as zeros. For the
MOVE operation, the zone portion of the rightmost character is converted to
its corresponding sign and moved to the rightmost position of the numeric
result field. It becomes the sign of the field. (See Figure 11 for
an example.) For the MOVEL operation, the zone portion of the rightmost character
of factor 2 is converted and used as the sign of the result field (unless
factor 2 is shorter than the result field) whether or not the rightmost character
is included in the move operation. (See Figure 1 for an example.)

If move operations are specified between numeric fields, the decimal positions
specified for the factor 2 field are ignored. For example, if 1.00 is moved
into a three-position numeric field with one decimal position, the result
is 10.0.

Factor 2 may contain the figurative constants *ZEROS for moves to character
or numeric fields. To achieve the same function for graphic fields, the user
should code *ALLG'oXXi' (where 'XX' represents graphic zeros).

When moving data from a character source to graphic fields, if the source
is a character literal, named constant, or *ALL, the compiler will check to
make sure it is entirely enclosed by one pair of shift-out shift-in characters
(SO/SI). The compiler also checks that the character source is of even length
and at least 4 bytes (SO/SI plus one graphic character). When moving from
a hexadecimal literal or *ALLX to graphic field, the first byte and last byte
of the hexadecimal literal or the pattern within *ALLX must not be 0E (shift
out) and 0F (shift in). But the hexadecimal literal (or pattern) should still
represent an even number of bytes.

When a character field is involved in a move from/to a graphic field, the
compiler will check that the character field is of even length and at least
4 bytes long. At runtime, the compiler checks the content of the character
field to make sure it is entirely enclosed by only one pair of SO/SI.

When moving from a graphic field to a character field, if the length of
the character field is greater than the length of the graphic field (in bytes)
plus 2 bytes, the SO/SI are added immediately before and after the graphic
data. This may cause unbalanced SO/SI in the character field due to residual
data in the character field, which will not be diagnosed by the compiler.

When move operations are used to move data from character fields to graphic
fields, shift-out and shift-in characters are removed. When moving data from
graphic fields to character fields, shift-out and shift-in characters are
inserted in the target field.

When move operations are used to convert data from character to UCS-2 or
from UCS-2 to character, the number of characters moved is variable since
the character data may or may not contain shift characters and graphic characters.
For example, five UCS-2 characters can convert to:

Five single-byte characters

Five double-byte characters

A combination of single-byte and double-byte characters with shift characters
separating the modes

If the resulting data is too long to fit the result field, the data will
be truncated. If the result is single-byte character, it is the responsibility
of the user to ensure that the result contains complete characters, and contains
matched SO/SI pairs.

If you specify operation extender P for a move operation, the result field
is padded from the right for MOVEL and MOVEA and from the left for MOVE. The
pad characters are blank for character, double-byte blanks for graphic, UCS-2
blanks for UCS-2, 0 for numeric, and '0' for indicator. The padding
takes place after the operation. If you use MOVE or MOVEL to move a field
to an array, each element of the array will be padded. If you use these operations
to move an array to an array and the result contains more elements than the
factor 2 array, the same padding takes place but the extra elements are not
affected. A MOVEA operation with an array name in the result field will pad
the last element affected by the operation plus all subsequent elements.

When resulting indicators are specified for move operations, the result
field determines which indicator is set on. If the result field is a character,
graphic, or UCS-2 field, only the resulting indicator in positions 75 and
76 can be specified. This indicator is set on if the result field is all blanks.
When the result field is numeric, all three resulting indicator positions
may be used. These indicators are set on as follows:

High (71-72)

Set on if the result field is greater than 0.

Low (73-74)

Set on if the result field is less than 0.

Equal (75-76)

Set on if the result field is equal to 0.

Parent topic: Move Operations