Subnormal numbers and underflow

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Data types > Numbers > Numbers

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Data types > Numbers

Subnormal numbers and underflow
The decimal floating-point data type has a set of non-zero
numbers that fall outside the range of normal decimal floating-point
values. These numbers are called subnormal.
Non-zero numbers whose adjusted exponents are less than
Emin (-6143 for DECFLOAT(34) or -383 for DECFLOAT(16)),
are called subnormal numbers. These subnormal numbers are accepted
as operands for all operations and may result from any operation.
If a result is subnormal before any rounding, the subnormal warning
is returned.1
For a subnormal
result, the minimum value of the exponent becomes Emin-
(precision - 1), called Etiny, where precision is the precision
of the decimal floating-point number. Hence, the smallest value of
the exponent Etiny = -6176 for DECFLOAT(34) and -398 for
DECFLOAT(16). As the exponent Etiny gets smaller, the number
of digits available in the mantissa also decreases. The number of
digits available in the mantissa for subnormal numbers is (precision
- (- Etiny + Emin).
The result will be
rounded, if necessary, to ensure that the exponent is no smaller than
Etiny. If, during this rounding, the result becomes inexact,
an underflow warning is returned.1 A
subnormal result does not always return the underflow warning but
will always return the subnormal warning.
When a number underflows
to zero during a calculation, its exponent will be Etiny.
The maximum value of the exponent is unaffected.
The maximum
value of the exponent for subnormal numbers is the same as the minimum
value of the exponent which can arise during operations that do not
result in subnormal numbers. This occurs where the length of the coefficient
in decimal digits is equal to the precision.

Parent topic: Numbers

1 The warning is only returned if *YES is specified
for the SQL_DECFLOAT_WARNINGS query option.