Control Level Indicators (L1-L9)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > RPG IV Indicators > Indicators Defined on RPG IV Specifications > Indicators Defined on RPG IV Specifications

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > RPG IV Indicators > Indicators Defined on RPG IV Specifications

Control Level Indicators (L1-L9)

A control level indicator is defined by an entry in positions 63
and 64 of the input specifications, designating an input field as
a control field. It can then be used to condition calculation and
output operations. The valid control level indicator entries are L1
through L9.

A control level indicator designates an input field as a control
field. When a control field is read, the data in the control field
is compared with the data in the same control field from the previous
record. If the data differs, a control break occurs, and the control
level indicator assigned to the control field is set on. You can then
use control level indicators to condition operations that are to be
processed only when all records with the same information in the control
field have been read. Because the indicators stay on for both total
time and the first detail time, they can also be used to condition
total printing (last record of a control group) or detail printing
(first record in a control group). Control level indicators are set
off before the next record is read.

A control break
can occur after the first record containing a control field is read.
The control fields in this record are compared to an area in storage
that contains hexadecimal zeros. Because fields from two different
records are not being compared, total calculations and total output
operations are bypassed for this cycle.

Control level indicators are ranked in order of importance with
L1 being the lowest and L9 the highest. All lower level indicators
are set on when a higher level indicator is set on as the result of
a control break. However, the lower level indicators can be used in
the program only if they have been defined. For example, if L8 is
set on by a control break, L1 through L7 are also set on. The LR
(last record) indicator is set on when the input files are at end
of file. LR is considered the highest level indicator and forces L1
through L9 to be set on.

You can also define control level indicators as record identifying
or resulting indicators. When you use them in this manner, the status
of the lower level indicators is not changed when a higher level indicator
is set on. For example, if L3 is used as a resulting indicator, the
status of L2 and L1 would not change if L3 is set on.

The importance of a control
field in relation to other fields determines how you assign control
level indicators. For example, data that demands a subtotal should
have a lower control level indicator than data that needs a final
total. A control field containing department numbers should have a
higher control level indicator than a control field containing employee
numbers if employees are to be grouped within departments (see Figure 1).

Rules for Control Level Indicators

Split Control Field

Parent topic: Indicators Defined on RPG IV Specifications