Detecting unused objects on the system

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries > Objects and libraries

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Objects and libraries

Detecting unused objects on the system
Information provided in the object description can help
you detect and manage unused objects on the system.
To detect an unused object, look at both the last-used
date and the last-changed date. Change commands do not update the
last-used date unless the commands cause the object to be deleted
and created again, or the change operation causes the object to be
read as a part of the change.
Date and time of last change When an object is created or changed, the system time stamps the
object, indicating the date and time the change occurred.

Date of last use The date of last use is only updated once per day (the first time
an object is used in a day). The system date is used.
An unsuccessful attempt to use an object does not update the last
used date. For example, if a user tries to use an object for which
the user is not authorized, the date of last use does not change.
The date of last use is blank for new objects.
When an object that already exists on the system is restored,
the date of last use comes from the object on the system. If it does
not already exist when restored, the date is blank.
Objects that are deleted and re-created during the restore operation
lose the date of last use.
The last used date for a database file is not updated when the
number of members in the file is zero. For example, if you use the Create
Duplicate Object (CRTDUPOBJ) to copy objects and there are
no members in the database file, the last used date is not updated.
The last used date for a database file is the last used date of
the file member with the most current last used date.
For logical files, the last used date is the last time a logical
member (or cursor) was used.
For physical files, the last used date is the last time the data
in the data space was used through a physical or logical access.
Objects that are deleted and re-created during
the rename operation lose the date of last use.

Date of last activityDate of last activity is the last date for which data transfer,
session or conversation establishment, or use of the hardware associated
with a device description occurred.
Because the date of last use is updated when a device,
controller status, or both go beyond vary-on pending, the date of
last use does not accurately reflect the use of the configuration
description. For example, if you set virtual devices, controllers,
or both to ONLINE(*YES), although no data transfer or communications
are established on the device, the date of last use is updated when
an initial program load (IPL) is processing and the device is varied
on. However, date of last activity is not updated, which can
reflect the accurate use of the configuration description.

Table 1. Updating usage informationType of object
Commands and operations

All object types
Create Duplicate Object
(CRTDUPOBJ) command and other commands, such as the Copy
Library (CPYLIB) command, that use CRTDUPOBJ to copy objects.
Grant Object Authority (GRTOBJAUT) command
(for referenced objects)

Binding directory
When bound with another module or binding directory to create
a bound program (CRTPGM command) or bound service program (CRTSRVPGM
command). When updated on the Update Program UPDPGM command or Update
Service Program (UPDSRVPGM command).

Change Request Description
Change Command Change Request
Activity (CHGCMDCRQA)

Chart format
Display Chart (DSPCHT) command

C locale description
Retrieve C Locale Description
Source (RTVCLDSRC) command or when referred to in a C program

Class
When used to start a job

Command
When runWhen compiled in a CL
program
When prompted during entry of source entry utility (SEU)
source
When calling the system in check mode
Note: Prompting
from the command line and then pressing F3 is not counted as a use
of a command.

Communications side information (CSI)
When the CPI-Communications Initialize
Conversation (CMINIT) call is used to initialize values for various
conversation characteristics from the side information object.

Connection list
When the connection list goes beyond
status of vary on pending

Cross system product map
When referred to in a CSP application

Cross system product table
When referred to in a CSP application

Controller description
When the controller goes beyond status
of vary on pending

Device description
When the device goes beyond status
of vary on pending

Data area
Retrieve Data Area (RTVDTAARA) command
Display Data Area (DSPDTAARA) command

Data queue
Usage information for the following
APIs is updated only once per job (the first time one of the APIs
is initiated). Send Data Queue (QSNDDTAQ) API
Receive
Data Queue (QRCVDTAQ) API
Retrieve Data Queue
(QMHQRDQD) API
Read Data Queue (QMHRDQM) API

File (database file only unless specified
otherwise)
When closed (other files, such as
device and save files, also updated when closed) When cleared
When
initialized
When reorganized
Commands:
Apply Journaled Changes (APYJRNCHG) command
Remove Journaled Changes (RMVJRNCHG) command

Font resource
When referred to during a print operation

Form definition
When referred to during a print operation

Graphics symbol set
When referred to by a GDDM* or PGR
graphics application program When loaded internally or using GSLSS

Job description
When used to establish a job

Job schedule
When the system submits a job for
a job schedule entry When the user takes 'Option 10 = submit immediately'
from the WRKJOBSCDE panel

Job queue
When an entry is placed on or removed
from the queue

Line description
When the line goes beyond status
of vary on pending

Locale
Retrieve locale API QLGRTVLC When
a job starts if the user profile LOCALE value contains a path name
to a valid *LOCALE object.

Management collection
Only updated by commands and operations
that affect all object types.

Media definition
The SAVLIB, SAVOBJ, RSTLIB, RSTOBJ,
SAVCHGOBJ commands; as well as, the BRMS and QSRSAVO API.

Menu
When a menu is displayed using the
GO command

Message files
When a message is retrieved from
a message file other than QCPFMSG, ##MSG1, ##MSG2, or QSSPMSG (such
as when a job log is built, a message queue is displayed, help is
requested on a message in the QHST log, or a program receives a message
other than a mark message) Merge Message File (MRGMSGF) command
except when the message file is QCPFMSG, ##MSG1, ##MSG2, or QSSPMSG

Message queue
When a message is sent to, received
from, or listed message queue other than QSYSOPR and QHST

Module
When bound with another module or binding directory to create
a bound program (CRTPGM command) or bound service program (CRTSRVPGM
command). When updated on the Update Program (UPDPGM) command
or Update Service Program (UPDSRVPGM) command.

Network interface description
When the network interface description
goes beyond status of vary on pending

Node List
Only updated by commands and operations
that affect all object types

Output queue
When an entry is placed on or removed
from the queue

Overlay
When referred to during a print operation

Page definition
When referred to during a print operation

Page segment
When referred to during a print operation

Panel group
When the Help key is used to request
help information for a specific prompt or panel, the date of usage
is updated When a panel is displayed or printed from a panel group

PDF map
Add PDF Map Entry (QPQAPME) API Work
with PDF Map Entries (WRKPDFMAPE) command

Print descriptor group
When referred to during a print operation

Product Availability
Only updated by commands and operations
that affect all object types

Product Load
Only updated by commands and operations
that affect all object types

Program
Retrieve CL Source (RTVCLSRC) command When
run and not a system program

PSF Configuration
When referred to during a print operation

Query definition
When used to generate a report When
extracted or exported

Query manager form
When used to generate a report When
extracted or exported

Query manager query
When used to generate a report When
extracted or exported

Search index
When the F11 key is used through
the online help information When the Start Search Index
(STRSCHIDX) command is used

Server storage
Vary Configuration (VRYCFG) is
run against a network server description object

Service program
When a bound service program is activated

SQL Package
Only updated by commands and operations
that affect all object types

SQL XML schema repository
Only updated by commands and operations
that affect all object types

Subsystem description
When subsystem is started

Spelling aid dictionary
When used to create another dictionary
When retrieved
When a word is found in the dictionary during
a spell check and the dictionary is not an IBM-supplied spelling aid
dictionary

Table
When used by a program for translation

Time zone description
Starting a job with the time zone description.
Referencing the time zone description in order to calculate a
new current offset when a DST (Daylight Savings Time) boundary is
crossed.

User profile
When a job is initiated for the profile
When the profile is a group profile and a job is started using
a member of the group
Grant User Authority (GRTUSRAUT) command
(for referenced profile)

Workstation User Customization
Only updated by commands and operations
that affect all object types

The following is additional object usage information provided
in the object description:
Counter of number of days used The count is increased when the date of last use is updated.
When an object that already exists on the system is restored,
the number of days used comes from the object on the system. If it
does not already exist when restored, the count is zero.
Objects that are deleted and re-created during the restore operation
lose the days used count.
The days used count is zero for new objects. Note: The i5/OS® operating system cannot
determine the difference between old and new device files. If you
restore a device file on to the system and a device file of that same
name already exists, delete the existing file if you want the days
used count to be reset to zero. If the file is not deleted, the system
will interpret this as a restore operation of an old object and retain
the days used count.

The days used count for a database file is the sum of the days
used counts for all file members. If there is an overflow on the sum,
the maximum value (of the days used counts field) is shown.

Date days used count was reset When the days used count is reset using the Change Object
Description (CHGOBJD) command or the Change Object
Description (QLICOBJD) API, the date is recorded. The user
then knows how long the days used count has been active.
If the days used count is reset for a file, all of the members
have their days used count reset.

Common situations that can delete the days used count and
the last used date are as follows:
Restoring damaged objects on the system.
Restoring programs when the system is not in a restricted state.

The Display Object Description (DSPOBJD) command
can be used to display a full description of an object. You can use
the same command to write the description to an output file. To retrieve
the descriptions, use the Retrieve Object Description (RTVOBJD) command.

Note: The Retrieve Object Description (QUSROBJD) API provides
the same information as the Retrieve Object Description command.
The Retrieve
Member Description (RTVMBRD) command and Display
File Description (DSPFD) command provide similar information
for members in a file.
Object usage information is not updated
for the following object types:
Alert table (*ALRTBL)
Authorization list (*AUTL)
Configuration list (*CFGL)
Class-of-service description (*COSD)
Data Dictionary (*DTADCT)
Double-byte character set dictionary (*IGCDCT)
Double-byte character set sort (*IGCSRT)
Double-byte character set table (*IGCTBL)
Edit description (*EDTD)
Exit Registration (*EXITRG)
Filter (*FTR)
Forms control table (*FCT)
Folder (*FLR)
Internet Packet Exchange Description (*IPXD)
Journal (*JRN)
Journal receiver (*JRNRCV)
Library (*LIB)
Mode description (*MODD)
Network Server Configuration (*NWSCFG)
Network Server Description (*NWSD)
NetBIOS Description (*NTBD)
Product definition (*PRDDFN)
Reference code translation table (*RCT)
Session description (*SSND)
S/36 machine description (*S36)
User-defined SQL type (*SQLUDT)
User queue (*USRQ)

Parent topic: Objects and libraries

Related information
CL command finder