Scope of Definitions

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Defining Data and Prototypes > General Considerations > General Considerations

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Defining Data and Prototypes > General Considerations

Scope of Definitions

Depending on where a definition occurs, it will have different
scope. Scope refers to the range of source lines
where a name is known. There are two types of scope: global and local,
as shown in Figure 1.

Figure 1. Scope of Definitions

In general, all items that are defined in the main source
section are global, and therefore, known throughout the module. Global definitions are definitions that can be used
by both the cycle-main procedure and any subprocedures within the
module. They can also be exported.

Items in a subprocedure, on the other hand, are local. Local definitions are definitions that are known
only inside that subprocedure. If an item is defined with the same
name as a global item, then any references to that name inside the
subprocedure will use the local definition.

However, note the following exceptions:

Subroutine names and tag names are known only to the
procedure in which they are defined. This includes subroutine or
tag names that are defined in the cycle-main procedure.

All fields specified on input and output specifications are global.
For example, if a subprocedure does an operation using a record format,
say a WRITE operation, the global fields will be used even if there
are local definitions with the same names as the record format fields.

Sometimes you may have a mix of global and local definitions. For
example, KLISTs and PLISTs can be global or local. The fields associated
with global KLISTs and PLISTs contain only
global fields. The fields associated with local KLISTs
and PLISTs can contain both global and local fields. For more information
on the behavior of KLISTs and KFLDs inside subprocedures, see Scope of Definitions.

Parent topic: General Considerations