CREATE INDEX

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

CREATE INDEX
The CREATE INDEX statement creates an index on a table
at the current server.
InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared.
AuthorizationThe privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
The privilege to create in the schema. For more information, see Privileges necessary
to create in a schema.
Database administrator authority

The privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement
must include at least one of the following:
The following system authorities: *USE to the Create Logical File (CRTLF) command
*CHANGE to the data dictionary if the library into which the index
is created is an SQL schema with a data dictionary

Database administrator authority

The privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement
must also include at least one of the following:
For the referenced table: The INDEX privilege on the table
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the table

Database administrator authority

If SQL names are specified and a user profile exists that
has the same name as the library into which the table is created,
and that name is different from the authorization ID of the statement,
then the privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement
must include at least one of the following:
The system authority *ADD to the user profile with that name
Database administrator authority

If a distinct type is referenced, the privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
For each distinct type identified in the statement: The USAGE privilege on the distinct type, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the distinct
type

Database administrator authority

For information about the system authorities corresponding
to SQL privileges, see Corresponding
System Authorities When Checking Privileges to a Table or View.
SyntaxCREATEUNIQUEWHERE NOT NULLENCODED VECTORINDEXindex-nameFOR SYSTEM NAMEsystem-object-identifierONtable-name(,key-expressionASCDESC)WHEREsearch-conditionindex-optionskey-expressionexpressionAScolumn-nameFORCOLUMNsystem-column-nameindex-optionsWITHintegerDISTINCTVALUESNOT PARTITIONEDPARTITIONEDINCLUDE(,aggregate-function-name (expression))PAGESIZE64PAGESIZE81632128256512RCDFMTformat-nameADD
ALL COLUMNSADD KEYS ONLYADD,column-namemedia-preferencememory-preference1media-preferenceUNIT ANYUNIT SSDmemory-preferenceKEEP IN MEMORYNOYES
DescriptionUNIQUE
Prevents
the table from containing two or more rows with the same value of
the index key. When UNIQUE is used, all null values for a column are
considered equal. For example, if the key is a single column that
can contain null values, that column can contain only one null value.
The constraint is enforced when rows of the table are updated or new
rows are inserted.The constraint is also checked during the execution
of the CREATE INDEX statement. If the table already contains rows
with duplicate key values, the index is not created.

UNIQUE WHERE NOT NULL
Prevents
the table from containing two or more rows with the same value of
the index key, where all null values for a column are not considered
equal. Multiple null values in a column are allowed. Otherwise, this
is identical to UNIQUE.
ENCODED VECTOR
Specifies
that the resulting index will be an encoded vector index (EVI). An
encoded vector index cannot be used to ensure an ordering of rows.
It is used by the database manager to improve the performance of queries.
For more information, see the Database Performance
and Query Optimization topic collection.

index-name
Names
the index. The name, including the implicit or explicit qualifier,
must not be the same as an index, table, view, alias, or file that
already exists at the current server. If SQL names were specified,
the index will be created in the schema specified by the implicit
or explicit qualifier.
If system names were specified, the index
name will be created in the schema that is specified by the qualifier.
If not qualified, the index name will be created in the same schema
as the table over which the index is created.
If the index name
is not a valid system name and the FOR SYSTEM NAME
clause is not used, DB2® for
i will
generate a system name. For information about the rules for generating
a name, see Rules for Table Name Generation.

FOR SYSTEM NAME system-object-identifier
Identifies the system-object-identifier of the index. system-object-identifier must
not be the same as a table, view, alias, or index that already exists
at the current server. The system-object-identifier must be
an unqualified system identifier. When system-object-identifier is
specified, index-name must not be a valid system object name.

ON table-name
Identifies the table
on which the index is to be created. The table-name must
identify a base table (not a view) that exists at the current server. If
the table is a partitioned table, an alias may be specified which
identifies a single partition. The created index will then only be
created over the specified partition.

key-expression
Identifies a column or expression that will be part of the index
key. The number of keys defined for the index must not exceed 120,
and the sum of their byte lengths must not exceed 32766-n,
where n is the number of keys specified that allow nulls.
expression
If expression contains only a column-name,
it must be an unqualified name that identifies a column of the table. expression must contain a column
reference. The same column-name cannot
be specified more than once if:a WHERE clause, INCLUDE clause, or RCDFMT clause is
specified,
an expression is defined as part of an index key, or
a column is renamed using the AS clause.

If the expression is
not a column name, the expression must not
reference a column that contains a field procedure.
A column-name must
not identify a LOB, XML, or DATALINK column, or a distinct type based
on a LOB, XML, or DATALINK column. If the expression is
not a column name, any intermediate result expression and the final
result expression must not be a DATALINK, LOB, or XML data type. It
must not contain any of the following:Subqueries
Aggregate functions
Variables
Global variables
Parameter markers
Special registers
Sequence references
OLAP specifications
ROW CHANGE expressions
REGEXP_LIKE predicate
User-defined functions other than functions that were implicitly
generated with the creation of a distinct type
Any function that is not deterministic
The following built-in scalar functions:ATAN2
DLURLPATH
MONTHNAME
SCORE

CARDINALITY
DLURLPATHONLY
MONTHS_BETWEEN
SOUNDEX

CONTAINS
DLURLSCHEME
NEXT_DAY
TABLE_NAME

CURDATE
DLURLSERVER
OVERLAY
TABLE_SCHEMA

CURTIME
DLVALUE
NOW
TIMESTAMP_FORMAT

DATAPARTITIONNAME
ENCRYPT_AES
RAISE_ERROR
TIMESTAMPDIFF

DATAPARTITIONNUM
ENCRYPT_RC2
RAND
TRUNC_TIMESTAMP

DAYNAME
ENCRYPT_TDES
REGEXP_COUNT
VARCHAR_FORMAT

DBPARTITIONNAME
GENERATE_UNIQUE
REGEXP_INSTR
VERIFY_GROUP_FOR_USER

DECRYPT_BINARY
GETHINT
REGEXP_REPLACE
WEEK_ISO

DECRYPT_BIT
IDENTITY_VAL_LOCAL
REGEXP_SUBSTR
WRAP

DECRYPT_CHAR
INSERT
REPEAT
XMLPARSE

DECRYPT_DB
LPAD
REPLACE
XMLVALIDATE

DIFFERENCE
LOCATE_IN_STRING
ROUND_TIMESTAMP
XSLTRANSFORM

DLURLCOMPLETE 1
MAX_CARDINALITY
RPAD
 

1 For DataLinks with an attribute of FILE LINK CONTROL and READ PERMISSION DB.

column-name
Names
a column of the index. Do not use the same name for more than one
column of the index or for a system-column-name of
the index.If the expression is not a column name and is
not named, a name will be generated for the index key column. The
name will be SQLIXxxxxx, where xxxxx is a number that makes
the column name unique for the index.

FOR COLUMN system-column-name
Provides
an IBM® i name for
the column. Do not use the same name for more than one column of the
index or for a column-name of the index. If the system-column-name is not specified, and
the column-name is not a valid system-column-name, a system column
name is generated. The name will be SQLIXxxxxx, where xxxxx is
a number that makes the column name unique for the index.

ASC
Specifies
that the index entries are to be kept in ascending order of the column
values. ASC is the default.
DESC
Specifies
that the index entries are to be kept in descending order of the column
values.

Ordering is performed in accordance with the
comparison rules described in Assignments and comparisons.
The null value is higher than all other values.

WHERE search-condition
Specifies the condition to apply for a row to be included in the
index. The search-condition cannot contain a predicate with
a subquery. It must not contain any of the items listed as restrictions
for key-expression.
WITH integer DISTINCT VALUES
Specifies the estimated number of
distinct key values. This clause may be specified for any type of
index. For encoded vector indexes this is used to determine the
initial size of the codes assigned to each distinct key value. Only 1, 2, and 4 byte codes are used. If the INCLUDE clause
is not specified, the default value is 255 (a 1-byte code). Otherwise,
a 4-byte code is used. During the create or rebuild of the index if
the number of distinct values exceeds the maximum supported by the
size of the code, the size of the code is increased.
For
non-encoded vector indexes, this clause is ignored.

PARTITIONED
Specifies
that an index partition should be created for each data partition
defined for the table using the specified columns. The table-name must
identify a partitioned table. If the index is unique, the columns
of the index must be the same or a superset of the columns of the
data partition key. PARTITIONED is the default if the index is not
unique and the table is partitioned.
NOT PARTITIONED
Specifies
that a single index should be created that spans all of the data partitions
defined for the table. The table-name must
identify a partitioned table. NOT PARTITIONED is the default if the
index is unique and the table is partitioned. An index on a table
that is not partitioned is also by default not partitioned. If
an encoded vector index is specified, NOT PARTITIONED is not allowed.

PAGESIZE
Specifies
the logical page used for the index in kilobytes. Indexes with larger
logical page sizes are typically more efficient when scanned during
query processing. Indexes with smaller logical page sizes are typically
more efficient for simple index probes and individual key look ups. The
default value for PAGESIZE is determined by the length of the key
and has a minimum value of 64.
If an encoded vector index is
specified, PAGESIZE is not allowed.

INCLUDE
Specifies
aggregate function expressions to be included in the index. These
aggregates make it possible for the index to be used directly to return
aggregate results for a query. INCLUDE is only allowed for an encoded
vector index. aggregate-function-name ( expression )
The aggregate function name must be one of the built-in
functions AVG, COUNT, COUNT_BIG, SUM, STDDEV, STDDEV_SAMP, VARIANCE,
or VARIANCE_SAMP. The DISTINCT keyword must not be
specified. The expression argument of the aggregate function
must not contain any of the items listed as restrictions for key-expression.

RCDFMT format-name
An
unqualified name that designates the IBM i record format name
of the index. A format-name is a system
identifier. If a record format name is not specified:If no key columns are expressions and no key columns have been
explicitly named using the AS clause, the index will share the format
of table-name.
Otherwise, the index will not share the format of table-name and
the format-name is the same as the system-object-name of
the index.

If the INCLUDE keyword is specified, RCDFMT
is not allowed.
ADD ALL COLUMNS
Specifies that all non-hidden columns of table-name will
be added to the format for the index. All the columns will be defined
in the same order as they appear in the format of table-name and
will precede any expressions defined as index keys.
ADD KEYS ONLY
Specifies that only the columns specified as index key columns
will be added to the format for the index. Other columns from table-name will
not be added.
ADD column-name
Specifies that the listed columns will be added to the format
for the index. The index key columns will be first, followed by the
added columns.

media-preferenceSpecifies
the preferred storage media for the index.
UNIT ANY
No
storage media is preferred. Storage for the index will be allocated
from any available storage media.
UNIT SSD
Solid state
disk storage media is preferred. Storage for the index may be allocated
from solid state disk storage media, if available.

memory-preferenceKEEP IN MEMORY
Specifies
whether the data for the index should be brought into a main storage
pool when the data is used for a query.NO
The data will not be brought into a main storage pool.
YES
The data will be brought into a main storage pool.

NotesEffects
of the statement: CREATE INDEX creates a description of the index.
If the named table already contains data, CREATE INDEX creates the
index entries for it. If the table does not yet contain data, the
index entries are created when data is inserted into the table.
Collating sequence: Any index created over columns
containing SBCS or mixed data is created with the collating sequence
in effect at the time the statement is executed. For collating sequences
other than *HEX, the key for SBCS data or mixed data is the weighted
value of the key based on the collating sequence.
Index attributes: An index is created as a keyed
logical file. When an index is created, the file wait time and record
wait time attributes are set to the default that is specified on the
WAITFILE and WAITRCD keywords of the Create Logical File (CRTLF) command.
The date and time format used for date and
time result columns is ISO.
An index created over a distributed table is created on
all of the servers across which the table is distributed. For more
information about distributed tables, see DB2 Multisystem.
Index ownership: If SQL names were specified:
If a user profile with the same name as the schema into which
the index is created exists, the owner of the index is that
user profile.
Otherwise, the owner of the index is the user profile or
group user profile of the thread executing the
statement.

If system names were specified, the owner of the
index is the user profile or group user profile of the thread executing
the statement.
Index authority: If SQL names are used, indexes
are created with the system authority of *EXCLUDE on *PUBLIC. If system
names are used, indexes are created with the authority to *PUBLIC
as determined by the create authority (CRTAUT) parameter of the schema.
If the owner of the index is a member of a group profile
(GRPPRF keyword) and group authority is specified (GRPAUT keyword),
that group profile will also have authority to the index.
ExamplesExample 1: Create an index
named UNIQUE_NAM on the PROJECT table. The purpose of the index is
to ensure that there are not two entries in the table with the same
value for project name (PROJNAME). The index entries are to be in
ascending order.
CREATE UNIQUE INDEX UNIQUE_NAM
ON PROJECT(PROJNAME)

Example 2: Create an index named JOB_BY_DPT on
the EMPLOYEE table. Arrange the index entries in ascending order by
job title (JOB) within each department (WORKDEPT).
CREATE INDEX JOB_BY_DPT
ON EMPLOYEE (WORKDEPT, JOB)

Example 3: Create an index named DEPT_TYPE on the
DEPARTMENT table. Arrange the index entries in ascending order by
type of department, which is determined by the second and third characters
of the department number (DEPTNO).
CREATE INDEX DEPT_TYPE
ON DEPARTMENT (SUBSTR(DEPTNO,2,2))

Parent topic: Statements