Editing Considerations

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Editing Numeric Fields > Edit Codes > Edit Codes > IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Editing Numeric Fields

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Editing Numeric Fields > Edit Codes

Editing Considerations

Remember the following when you specify any of the edit codes:

Edit fields of a non-printer file with caution. If you do edit fields of a non-printer
file, be aware of the contents of the edited fields and the effects
of any operations you do on them. For example, if you use the file
as input, the fields written out with editing must be considered character
fields, not numeric fields.

Consideration should be given to data added by the edit operation.
The amount of punctuation added increases the overall length of the
edited value. If these added characters are not considered when editing
in output specifications, the output fields may overlap.

The end position specified for output is the end position of the edited
field. For example, if any of the edit codes J through M are specified,
the end position is the position of the minus sign (or blank if the
field is positive).

The compiler assigns a character position for the sign even for
unsigned numeric fields.

Parent topic: Edit Codes

User-Defined Edit Codes

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Editing Numeric Fields > Edit Codes

User-Defined Edit Codes

IBM® has predefined edit codes 5 through 9. You can use them as they are, or you can delete them and create your own. For a description of the IBM-supplied edit codes, see the IBM i
Information Center programming
category.

The user-defined edit codes allow you to handle common editing
problems that would otherwise require the use of an edit word. Instead
of the repetitive coding of the same edit word, a user-defined edit
code can be used. These codes are system defined by the CL command
CRTEDTD (Create Edit Description).

When you edit a field defined to have decimal places, be sure to
use an edit word that has an editing mask for both the fractional
and integer portions of the field. Remember that when a user-defined
edit code is specified in a program, any system changes made to that
user-defined edit code are not reflected until the program is recompiled.
For further information on CRTEDTD, see the IBM i
Information Center programming
category.

Parent topic: Edit Codes