Procedure resolution

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Language elements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements

Procedure resolution
Given a procedure invocation, DB2® must
decide which of the possible procedures with the same name to execute.
Let A be the number of arguments in a procedure invocation.
Let P be the number of parameters in a procedure signature.
Let N be the number of parameters without a default.

Candidate procedures for resolution of a procedure invocation
are selected based on the following criteria:Each candidate procedure has a matching name and an applicable
number of parameters. An applicable number of parameters satisfies
the condition N ≤ A ≤ P.
Each candidate procedure has parameters such that for each named
argument in the CALL statement there exists a parameter with a matching
name that does not already correspond to a positional (or unnamed)
argument.
Each parameter of a candidate procedure that does not have a corresponding
argument in the CALL statement, specified by either position or name,
is defined with a default.
Each candidate procedure from a set of one or more schemas has
the EXECUTE privilege associated with the authorization ID of the
CALL statement. The authorities of any objects referenced in a default
expression are not considered.

In addition, the set of candidate procedures depends on
how the procedure name is qualified.If the procedure name is unqualified, procedure resolution is
done as follows:Search all procedures with a schema in the SQL
path for candidate procedures. If one or more candidate procedures
are found in the schemas of the SQL path, then these candidate procedures
are included in the candidate list. If there is a single candidate
procedure in the list, resolution is complete. If there are multiple
candidate procedures, choose the procedure whose schema is earliest
in the SQL path. If there are still multiple candidate procedures,
select the candidate procedure with the lowest number of parameters.
If
there are no candidate procedures, an error is returned.

If the procedure name is qualified, procedure resolution is done
as follows:Search within the schema specified by the qualifier
for candidate procedures. If a single candidate procedure exists,
resolution is complete. If there are multiple candidate procedures,
choose the candidate procedure with the lowest number of parameters
and resolution is complete. If the schema does not exist or there
are no authorized candidate procedures, an error is returned.

Example 1: There are six FOO procedures,
in four different schemas, registered as follows (note that not all
required keywords appear): CREATE PROCEDURE AUGUSTUS.FOO (INT) SPECIFIC FOO_1 ...
CREATE PROCEDURE AUGUSTUS.FOO (DOUBLE, DECIMAL(15, 3)) SPECIFIC FOO_2 ...
CREATE PROCEDURE JULIUS.FOO (INT) SPECIFIC FOO_3 ...
CREATE PROCEDURE JULIUS.FOO (INT, INT, INT) SPECIFIC FOO_4 ...
CREATE PROCEDURE CAESAR.FOO (INT, INT) SPECIFIC FOO_5 ...
CREATE PROCEDURE NERO.FOO (INT,INT) SPECIFIC FOO_6 ...
The
procedure reference is as follows (where I1 and I2 are INTEGER values):
CALL FOO(I1, I2)
Assume that the application making this reference has
an SQL path established as: "JULIUS", "AUGUSTUS", "CAESAR"
Following through the algorithm, the procedure with specific
name FOO_6 is eliminated as a candidate, because the schema "NERO"
is not included in the SQL path. FOO_1, FOO_3, and FOO_4 are eliminated
as candidates, because they have the wrong number of parameters. The
remaining candidates are considered in order, as determined by the
SQL path. Note that the types of the arguments and parameters are
ignored. The parameters of FOO_5 exactly match the arguments in the
CALL, but FOO_2 is chosen because "AUGUSTUS" appears before "CAESAR"
in the SQL path.

Example 2: The following examples
illustrate procedure resolution using named parameters in the CALL
statement: CREATE PROCEDURE p1(i1 INT)...
CREATE PROCEDURE p1(i1 INT DEFAULT 0, i2 INT DEFAULT 0)...

CALL p1(i2=>1)
Since the argument names are taken
into consideration during the candidate selection process, only the
second version of p1 will be considered a candidate. Furthermore,
it can be successfully called because i1 in this version of p1 is
defined with a default, so only specifying i2 on the call to p1 is valid. The
procedure will be passed a value of 0 for parameter i1. CREATE PROCEDURE p2(i1 INT, i2 INT DEFAULT 0)...
CREATE PROCEDURE p2(i1 INT DEFAULT 0, i2 INT DEFAULT 0, i3 INT DEFAULT 0)...

CALL p2(i2=>1)
One of the criteria for a procedure
parameter which does not have a corresponding argument in the CALL
statement (specified by either position or name) is that the parameter
is defined with a default value. Therefore, the first version of p2
is not considered a candidate since parameter i1 does not have a default
defined. The second version of p2 will be selected and the default
values for the first and third parameters will be passed.

Parent topic: Language elements