SKIPB (Skip Before) keyword in printer files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

SKIPB (Skip Before) keyword in printer files

You use this file-level, record-level, or
field-level keyword to specify that the printer device is to skip to a specific
line number before it prints the next lines.

The format of the keyword is:
SKIPB(skip-before-line-number)The
parameter value is required and must be in the range 1 through 255.
If
you specify this keyword at the file level, you must option it with one or
more indicators; otherwise, option indicators are optional. The specified
skip is performed before each record in the file prints and after any file-level
SKIPB operations are applied.
If you specify this keyword at the record
level, skipping is performed before any of the lines associated with that
record print.
If you specify this keyword at the field level, skipping
is performed before the field prints.
You can specify this keyword once
at the file level, once at the record level, and once for each field.
This
keyword is valid at the file level for all records, but not at the record
or field level for records that have line numbers specified (positions 39
through 41). (The line numbers are flagged as errors.)
Note: If you do
not use line numbers and do not specify skip or space keywords, overprinting
can result.
The SKIPB keyword is not valid at either the field level
or record level if the record format also has the BOX, ENDPAGE, GDF, LINE,
OVERLAY, PAGSEG, or POSITION keywords specified.
This keyword is not
allowed at the file level for files defined as DEVTYPE(*AFPDS) on the CRTPRTF
command.
Option indicators are valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the SKIPB keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00022A R RFMTPR SKIPB(5)
A