REFRESH TABLE

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

REFRESH TABLE
The REFRESH TABLE statement refreshes the data in a materialized
query table. The statement deletes all rows in the materialized query
table and then inserts the result rows from the select-statement specified
in the definition of the materialized query table.
InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared.
AuthorizationThe privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
For the table identified in the statement, The system authority *OBJMGT on the table
The DELETE privilege on the table
The INSERT privilege on the table
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the table

Database administrator authority

For information on the system authorities corresponding to
SQL privileges, see Corresponding
System Authorities When Checking Privileges to a Table or View.
SyntaxREFRESH TABLE,table-name
Descriptiontable-name
Identifies
the materialized table to be refreshed. The table-name must
identify a materialized query table that exists at the current server.
REFRESH TABLE evaluates the select-statement in
the definition of the materialized query table to refresh the table.

NotesRefresh
use of materialized query tables: No materialized query tables
are used to evaluate the select-statement during
the processing of REFRESH TABLE statement.
Refresh isolation level: The isolation level used
to evaluate the select-statement is either:
the isolation level specified on the isolation-level clause
of the select-statement, or
if the isolation-level clause was not
specified, the isolation level of the materialized query table recorded
when CREATE TABLE or ALTER TABLE was issued.

Number of rows: After successful execution of a
REFRESH TABLE statement, the ROW_COUNT statement information item
in the SQL Diagnostics Area (or SQLERRD(3) in the SQLCA) will contain
the number of rows inserted into the materialized query table.
ExampleRefresh the data in the TRANSCOUNT
materialized query table.
REFRESH TABLE TRANSCOUNT

Parent topic: Statements