Using the Call Program command to pass control to a called program

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Controlling flow and communicating between programs and procedures > Passing parameters > Passing parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Controlling flow and communicating between programs and procedures > Passing parameters

Using the Call Program command to pass control to a called program
When the Call Program (CALL) command is issued
by a CL procedure, each parameter value passed to the called program can be
a character string constant, a numeric constant, a logical constant, or a
CL variable.
A maximum of 255 parameters can be passed to the called program.
The values of the parameters are passed in the order in which they appear
on the CALL command, and this must match the order in which
they appear in the parameter list of the called program. The names of the
variables passed do not have to be the same as the names on the receiving
parameter list. The names of the variables receiving the values in the called
program must be declared to the called program, but the order of the declare
commands is not important.
No association exists between the storage
in the called program and the variables it receives. Instead, when the calling
program passes a variable, the storage for the variable is in the program
in which it was originally declared. The system passes variables by address.
When passing a constant, the calling program makes a copy of the constant,
and passes the address of that copy to the called program.
The result
is that when a variable is passed, the called program can change the value
of the variable, and the change is reflected in the calling program. The new
value does not have to be returned to the calling program for later use; it
is already there. Thus no special coding is needed for a variable that is
to be returned to the calling program. When a constant is passed, and its
value is changed by the called program, the changed value is not known to
the calling program. Therefore, if the calling program calls the same program
again, it reinitializes the values of constants, but not of variables.
An
exception to the previous description is when the CALL command
calls an Integrated Language Environment® (ILE) C program. When using the CALL command
to call an ILE C program and pass character or logical constants, the system
adds a null character (x'00') after the last non-blank character. If the constant
is a character string that is enclosed in single quotation marks or a hexadecimal
constant, the null character is added after the last character that was specified.
This preserves the trailing blanks (x '40' characters). Numeric values are
not null-terminated.
If a CL program might be called using a CALL command
that has not been compiled (an interactive CALL command
or through the SBMJOB command), the decimal parameters (*DEC) should be declared
with LEN(15 5), and the character parameters (*CHAR) should
be declared LEN(32) or less in the receiving program.
A CALL command
that is not in a CL procedure or program cannot pass variables as arguments.
Be careful when specifying the CALL command as a command
parameter that is defined as TYPE(*CMDSTR). This converts the contents of
any variables that are specified on the PARM parameter to constants. The command
(CMD) parameters on the Submit Job (SBMJOB) command, Add
Job Schedule Entry (ADDJOBSCDE) command, or Change Job
Schedule Entry (CHGJOBSCDE) command are examples.
Parameters
can be passed and received as follows:
Character string constants of 32 bytes or less are always passed
with a length of 32 bytes (padded on the right with blanks). If a character
constant is longer than 32 bytes, the entire length of the constant is passed.
If the parameter is defined to contain more than 32 bytes, the CALL command
must pass a constant containing exactly that number of bytes. Constants longer
than 32 characters are not padded to the length expected by the receiving
program. The receiving program can receive less than the number of bytes
passed. For example, if a program specifies that 4 characters are to be received
and ABCDEF is passed (padded with blanks in 26 positions),
only ABCD are accepted and used by the program.
If
the receiving program receives more than the number of bytes passed, the results
may be unexpected. Numeric values passed as characters must be enclosed in
single quotation marks.

Decimal constants are passed in packed form and with a length of LEN(15
5), where the value is 15 digits long, of which 5 digits are decimal
positions. Thus, if a parameter of 12345 is passed, the
receiving program must declare the decimal field with a length of LEN(15
5); the parameter is received as 12345.00000. If
you need to pass a numeric constant to a program and the program is expecting
a value with a length and precision other than 15 5, the constant can be coded
in hexadecimal format. The following CALL command shows
how to pass the value 25.5 to a program variable that is declared as LEN(5
2): CALL PGMA PARM(X'02550F')

Logical constants are passed with a length of 32 bytes. The logical value
0 or 1 is in the first byte, and the remaining bytes are blank. If a value
other than 0 or 1 is passed to a program that expects a logical value, the
results may be unexpected.
A floating point literal or floating point special value (*NAN, *INF,
or *NEGINF) is passed as a double precision value, which occupies 8 bytes.
Although a CL program cannot process floating point numbers, it can receive
a floating point value into a character variable and pass that variable to
an high-level language (HLL) program that can process floating point values.
The system can pass a variable if the call is made from a CL procedure
or program. In this case the receiving program should declare the field to
match the variable that is defined in the calling CL procedure or program.
For example, assume that a CL procedure or program defines a decimal variable
that is named &CHKNUM as LEN(5 0). Then the receiving
program should declare the field as packed with 5 digits total, with no decimal
positions. When running a CALL command in batch mode by
using the SBMJOB command in a CL procedure or program, the system treats any
variables that are passed as arguments like constants.
If either a decimal constant or a program variable can be passed to the
called program, the parameter should be defined as LEN(15 5),
and any calling program must adhere to that definition. If the type, number,
order, and length of the parameters do not match between the calling and receiving
programs (other than the length exception noted previously for character constants),
results cannot be predicted.
In order for an integer constant to be passed to an integer variable,
the constant must be specified in hexadecimal format. The size of the hexadecimal
constant and integer variable must be the same.
The value *N cannot be used to specify a null value because a null value
cannot be passed to another program.

In the following example, program A passes six parameters: one logical
constant, three variables, one character constant, and one numeric constant.
PGM /* PROGRAM A */
DCL VAR(&B) TYPE(*CHAR)
DCL VAR(&C) TYPE(*DEC) LEN(15 5) VALUE(13.529)
DCL VAR(&D) TYPE(*CHAR) VALUE('1234.56')
CHGVAR VAR(&B) VALUE(ABCDEF)
CALL PGM(B) PARM('1' &B &C &D XYZ 2) /* Note blanks between parms */
.
.
.
ENDPGM
PGM PARM(&A &B &C &W &V &U) /* PROGRAM B */
DCL VAR(&A) TYPE(*LGL)
DCL VAR(&B) TYPE(*CHAR) LEN(4)
DCL VAR(&C) TYPE(*DEC)
/* Default length (15 5) matches DCL LEN in program A */
DCL VAR(&W) TYPE(*CHAR)
DCL VAR(&V) TYPE(*CHAR)
DCL VAR(&U) TYPE(*DEC)
.
.
. ENDPGM
Note: If the fifth parameter passed to PGMB was 456 instead
of XYZ and was intended as alphanumeric data, the value would
have been specified as '456' in the parameter.
The
logical constant '1' does not have to be declared in the calling program.
It is declared as type logical and named &A in program B.
Because
no length is specified on the DCL command for &B, the default length,
which is 32 characters, is passed. Only 6 characters of &B are specified
(ABCDEF). Because &B is declared with only 4 characters
in program B, only those 4 characters are received. If they are changed in
program B, those 4 positions for &B will also be changed in program A
for the remainder of this call.
The length (LEN) parameter must be specified
for &C in program A. If it were not specified, the length would default
to the specified value's length, which would be incompatible with the default
length expected in program B. &C has a value of 13.52900.
&W
in program B (&D in program A) is received as a character because it is
declared as a character. Single quotation marks are not necessary to indicate
a string if TYPE is *CHAR. In program A, the length defaults to the value's
length of 7 (the decimal point is considered a position in a character string).
Program B expects a length of 32. The first 7 characters are passed, but
the contents past the position 7 cannot be predicted.
The variable &V
is a character string XYZ, padded with blanks on the right.
The variable &U is numeric data, 2.00000.

Parent topic: Passing parameters

Related concepts
Length of parameter value

Related tasks
Using the Call Program command to pass control

Related information
Call Program (CALL) command
CL command finder