Column names

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Language elements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements

Column names
The meaning of a column name depends on its context.
A column name can be used to:
Declare the name of a column, as in a CREATE TABLE statement.
Identify a column, as in a CREATE INDEX statement.
Specify values of the column, as in the following contexts: In an aggregate function, a column name specifies all values
of the column in the group or intermediate result table to which the
function is applied. Groups and intermediate result tables are explained
under Queries. For example, MAX(SALARY)
applies the function MAX to all values of the column SALARY in a group.
In a GROUP BY or ORDER BY clause, a column name specifies
all values in the intermediate result table to which the clause is
applied. For example, ORDER BY DEPT orders an intermediate result
table by the values of the column DEPT.
In an expression, a search condition, or a scalar
function, a column name specifies a value for each row or group
to which the construct is applied. For example, when the search condition
CODE = 20 is applied to some row, the value specified by the column
name CODE is the value of the column CODE in that row.

Provide a column name for an expression to temporarily rename
a column, as in the correlation-clause of
a table-reference in a FROM clause, or in
the AS clause in the select-clause.

Qualified column names
A qualifier for a column name can be a table name, a view
name, an alias name, or a correlation name.
Correlation names
A correlation name can be defined in the FROM clause
of a query and after the target table-name or view-name in
an UPDATE or DELETE statement.
Column name qualifiers to avoid ambiguity
In the context of a function, a GROUP BY clause, an ORDER
BY clause, an expression, or a search condition, a column name refers
to values of a column in some target table or view in a DELETE or
UPDATE statement or table-reference in a
FROM clause.
Column name qualifiers in correlated references
A subselect is a form of a query that can be used
as a component of various SQL statements.
Unqualified column names in correlated references
An unqualified column name can also be a correlated reference.

Parent topic: Language elements