Specifying VALUES at the select/omit-field level

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Keyword entries for physical and logical files (positions 45 through 80) > VALUES (Values) keyword for physical and logical files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Keyword entries for physical and logical files (positions 45 through 80) > VALUES (Values) keyword for physical and logical files

Specifying VALUES at the select/omit-field level

At the select/omit-field level, this keyword selects or omits records
retrieved from the physical files when your program sends an input operation
using the record format in which the select/omit field is specified.

The following rules apply:
If the field you are defining is a character field, you
must specify character strings or hexadecimal character strings. Specify
character strings enclosed in single quotation marks. See Example 1 in VALUES
(Values) keyword for physical and logical files.
Specify hexadecimal
character strings as an X followed by a combination of the digits 0 through
9 and the letters A through F, enclosed in single quotation marks. The number
of hexadecimal digits in single quotation marks must be exactly twice the
specified length of the field. See Example 2 in VALUES (Values) keyword for
physical and logical files.

If the field you are defining is a numeric field, you must
specify a numeric value (digits 0 through 9 specified without single quotation
marks). See Example 1 in VALUES (Values) keyword for physical and logical
files.

If you are defining a date field, specify a valid date in the same format
specified on the DATFMT keyword and use the same separator as specified on
the DATSEP keyword. For example, VALUES('12/15/05'
'12/31/05') is the default value if *MDY is specified for DATFMT
and '/' is specified for DATSEP.

If you are defining a time field, specify a valid time in the same format
specified on the TIMFMT keyword and use the same separator as specified on
the TIMSEP keyword. For example, VALUES('11.00.00' '12.00.00') is
the default value if *ISO is specified for TIMFMT. The default separator for
*ISO is a period (.).

If you are defining a timestamp field, you must specify the default value
in the following format: VALUES('YYYY-MM-DD-HH.MM.SS.UUUUUU' 'YYYY-MM-DD-HH.MM.SS.UUUUUU')