DELETE

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

DELETE
The DELETE statement deletes rows from a table or view.
Deleting a row from a view deletes the row from the table on which
the view is based if no INSTEAD OF DELETE trigger is defined for this
view. If such a trigger is defined, the trigger will be activated
instead.
There are two forms of this statement:
The Searched DELETE form is used to delete one or more
rows (optionally determined by a search condition).
The Positioned DELETE form is used to delete exactly one
row (as determined by the current position of a cursor).

InvocationA Searched DELETE statement can
be embedded in an application program or issued interactively. A Positioned
DELETE must be embedded in an application program. Both forms are
executable statements that can be dynamically prepared.
AuthorizationThe privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
For the table or view identified in the statement: The DELETE privilege on the table or view, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the table
or view

Database administrator authority

If the search-condition in a Searched DELETE contains
a reference to a column of the table or view, then the privileges
held by the authorization ID of the statement must also include one
of the following:
The SELECT privilege on the table or view
Database administrator authority

If search-condition includes a subquery, the privileges
held by the authorization ID of the statement must also include at
least one of the following:
For each table or view identified in the subquery: The SELECT privilege on the table or view, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the table
or view

Database administrator authority

For information about the system authorities corresponding
to SQL privileges, see Corresponding
System Authorities When Checking Privileges to a Table or View.
SyntaxSearched DELETE:
DELETE FROMtable-nameview-namecorrelation-clauseWHEREsearch-conditionisolation-clauseconcurrent-access-resolution-clause1
Positioned DELETE:
DELETE FROMtable-nameview-namecorrelation-clauseWHERE CURRENT OFcursor-name
isolation–clauseWITHNCURCSRSRR
DescriptionFROM table-name or view-name
Identifies the table or view
from which rows are to be deleted. The name must identify a table
or view that exists at the current server, but it must not identify
a catalog table, a view of a catalog table, or a view that is not
deletable. For an explanation of deletable views, see CREATE VIEW.
correlation-clause
Specifies an alternate name
that can be used within the search-condition to
designate the table or view. For an explanation of correlation-clause,
see Queries. For an explanation of correlation-name,
see Correlation names.
WHERE
Specifies the
rows to be deleted. The clause can be omitted, or a search-condition or cursor-name can
be specified. If the clause is omitted, all rows of the table or view
are deleted. search-condition
Is any search condition as described in Search conditions. Each column-name in
the search-condition, other than in a subquery,
must identify a column of the table or view. The search-condition is
applied to each row of the table or view and the deleted rows are
those for which the result of the search-condition is
true.
If the search-condition contains
a subquery, the subquery can be thought of as being executed each
time the search condition is applied to
a row, and the results used in applying the search condition.
In actuality, a subquery with no correlated references may be executed
only once, whereas a subquery with a correlated reference may have
to be executed once for each row.
If a subquery refers to the
object table of the DELETE statement or a dependent table with a delete
rule of CASCADE, SET NULL, or SET DEFAULT, the subquery is completely
evaluated before any rows are deleted.

CURRENT OF cursor-name
Identifies the cursor to be
used in the delete operation. The cursor-name must
identify a declared cursor as explained in the Notes for the DECLARE CURSOR statement.
The table or view identified must also be specified in the FROM
clause of the select-statement of the cursor
and the cursor must be deletable. For an explanation of deletable
cursors, see DECLARE CURSOR.
The
DECLARE CURSOR statement must not have a period-specification for
the table or view used by the delete statement.
When
the DELETE statement is executed, the cursor must be positioned on
a row; that row is the one deleted. After the deletion, the cursor
is positioned before the next row of its result table. If there is
no next row, the cursor is positioned after the last row.

isolation-clause
Specifies
the isolation level to be used for this statement. WITH
Introduces
the isolation level, which may be one of: RR Repeatable read
RS Read stability
CS Cursor stability
UR Uncommitted read
NC No commit

If isolation-clause is
not specified the default isolation is used. For more information
on the default isolation, see isolation-clause.
concurrent-access-resolution-clause
Specifies the concurrent access resolution
to use for the select statement. For more information, see concurrent-access-resolution-clause.

DELETE RulesTriggers: If
the identified table or the base table of the identified view has
a delete trigger, the trigger is activated. A trigger might cause
other statements to be executed or return error conditions based on
the deleted values.
Referential Integrity: If the identified table or the base
table of the identified table is a parent table, the rows selected
must not have any dependents in a relationship with a delete rule
of RESTRICT or NO ACTION, and the DELETE must not cascade to descendent
rows that have dependents in a relationship with a delete rule of
RESTRICT or NO ACTION.
If the delete operation is not prevented by a RESTRICT
or NO ACTION delete rule, the selected rows are deleted. Any rows
that are dependents of the selected rows are also affected:
The nullable columns of the foreign keys of any rows that are
their dependents in a relationship with a delete rule of SET NULL
are set to the null value.
Any rows that are their dependents in a relationship with a delete
rule of CASCADE are also deleted, and the above rules apply, in turn
to those rows.
The columns of the foreign keys of any rows that are their dependents
in a relationship with a delete rule of SET DEFAULT are set to the
corresponding default value.

The referential constraints (other than a referential
constraint with a RESTRICT delete rule), are effectively checked at
the end of the statement. In the case of a multiple-row delete, this
would occur after all rows were deleted and any associated triggers
were activated.
Check Constraints: A check constraint can prevent
the deletion of a row in a parent table when there are dependents
in a relationship with a delete rule of SET NULL or SET DEFAULT. If
deleting a row in the parent table would cause a column in a dependent
table to be set to null or a default value and the null or default
value would cause a search condition of a check constraint to evaluate
to false, the row is not deleted.
NotesDelete
operation errors: If an error occurs while executing any delete
operation, changes from this statement, referential constraints, and
any triggered SQL statements are rolled back (unless the isolation
level is NC for this statement or any other triggered SQL statements).
Locking: Unless appropriate locks already exist,
one or more exclusive locks are acquired during the execution of a
successful DELETE statement. Until the locks are released by a commit
or rollback operation, the effect of the DELETE operation can only
be perceived by:
The application process that performed the deletion
Another application process using isolation level UR or NC

The locks can prevent other application processes from
performing operations on the table. For further information about
locking, see the description of the COMMIT, ROLLBACK, and LOCK TABLE
statements, and Isolation level.
If an application process deletes a row on which any of
its non-updatable cursors are positioned, those cursors are positioned
before the next row of their result table. Let C be a cursor that
is positioned before the next row R (as the result of an OPEN, a DELETE
through C, a DELETE through some other cursor, or a Searched DELETE).
In the presence of INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE operations that affect
the base table from which R is derived, the next FETCH operation referencing
C does not necessarily position C on R. For example, the operation
can position C on R' where R' is a new row that is now the next row
of the result table.
A maximum of 4000000 rows can be deleted or changed in
any single DELETE statement when COMMIT(*RR), COMMIT(*ALL), COMMIT(*CS),
or COMMIT(*CHG) was specified. The number of rows changed includes
any rows inserted, updated, or deleted under the same commitment definition
as a result of a trigger, a CASCADE, SET NULL, or SET DEFAULT referential
integrity delete rule.
Position of cursor: If an application process deletes
a row on which any of its cursors are positioned, those cursors are
positioned before the next row of their result table. Let C be a cursor
that is positioned before row R (as a result of an OPEN, a DELETE
through C, a DELETE through some other cursor, or a Searched DELETE).
In the presence of INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE operations that affect
the base table from which R is derived, the next FETCH operation referencing
C does not necessarily position C on R. For example, the operation
can position C on R', where R' is a new row that is now
the next row of the result table.
Number of rows deleted: When a DELETE statement
is completed, the number of rows deleted is returned in the ROW_COUNT
condition area item in the SQL Diagnostics Area (or SQLERRD(3) in
the SQLCA). The value in the ROW_COUNT item does not include the number
of rows that were deleted as a result of a CASCADE delete rule or
a trigger.
For a description of the SQLCA, see SQLCA (SQL communication area).
DELETE Performance: An
SQL DELETE statement that does not contain a WHERE clause will delete
all rows of a table. In this case, the rows may be deleted using either
a clear operation (if not running under commitment control) or a change
file operation (if running under commitment control). If running under
commitment control, the deletes can still be committed or rolled back.
This implementation will be much faster than individually deleting
each row, but individual journal entries for each row will not be
recorded in the journal. This technique will only be used if all the
following are true:
The target table is not a view.
The target table is not a system-period temporal table.
A significant number of rows are being deleted.
The job issuing the DELETE statement does not have an open cursor
on the file (not including pseudo-closed SQL cursors).
No other job has a lock on the table.
The table does not have an active delete trigger.
The table is not the parent in a referential constraint with a
CASCADE, SET NULL, or SET DEFAULT delete rule.
The user issuing the DELETE statement has *OBJMGT or *OBJALTER
system authority on the table in addition to the DELETE privilege.
The SQL_FAST_DELETE_ROW_COUNT QAQQINI option allows
fast delete.

If this technique is successful, the number of increments
(see the SIZE keyword on the CHGPF CL command) is set to zero.
The TRUNCATE statement can be used to delete all rows
from a table.
Referential integrity considerations: The DB2_ROW_COUNT_SECONDARY
condition information item in the SQL Diagnostics Area (or SQLERRD(5)
in the SQLCA) shows the number of rows affected by referential constraints.
It includes rows that were deleted as the result of a CASCADE delete
rule and rows in which foreign keys were set to NULL or the default
value as the result of a SET NULL or SET DEFAULT delete rule.
For a description of DB2_ROW_COUNT_SECONDARY, see GET DIAGNOSTICS. For a description of the SQLCA,
see SQLCA (SQL communication area).
Deleting rows in a table for which row
access control is enforced: When a DELETE statement is issued
for a table for which row access control is enforced, the rules specified
in the enabled row permissions determine whether the row can be deleted.
Typically those rules are based on the authorization ID of the statement.
The following describes how enabled row permissions and column masks
are used during DELETE:Row permissions are used to identify the set of rows to be deleted.When
multiple enabled row permissions are defined for a table, a row access
control search condition is derived by application of the logical
OR operator to the search condition in each enabled permission. This
row access control search condition is applied to the table to determine
which rows are accessible to the authorization ID of the DELETE statement.
If the WHERE clause is specified in the DELETE statement, the user-specified
predicates are applied on the accessible rows to determine the rows
to be deleted. If there is no WHERE clause, all the accessible rows
are the rows to be deleted.

Considerations for a system-period temporal
table: If the DELETE statement has a search condition that contains
a correlated subquery that references the history table (explicitly
referencing the name of the history table or implicitly referenced
through the use of a period specification in the FROM clause), the
deleted rows that are stored as historical rows are potentially visible
for delete operations for the rows that are subsequently processed
for the statement.
If the CURRENT TEMPORAL SYSTEM_TIME special
register is set to a non-null value and the value of the SYSTIME option
is YES, the underlying target of the DELETE statement must not be
a system-period temporal table. This restriction applies regardless
of whether the system-period temporal table is directly or indirectly
referenced.
Considerations for a history table: When
a row of a system-period temporal table is deleted, a historical copy
of the row is inserted into the corresponding history table and the
end timestamp of the historical row is captured in the form of a system
determined value that corresponds to the time of the data change operation.
The database manager assigns the value that is generated using a reading
of the time-of-day clock during execution of the first data change
statement in the transaction that requires a value to be assigned
to the row begin or transaction start-ID column in a table, or a row
in a system-period temporal table is deleted. The database manager
ensures uniqueness of the generated values for an end column in a
history table across transactions. The timestamp value might be adjusted
to ensure that rows inserted into the history table have the end timestamp
value greater than the begin timestamp value which can happen when
a conflicting transaction is updating the same row in the system-period
temporal table. The SYSTIME_PERIOD_ADJ QAQQINI option must be set
to *ADJUST for this adjustment to the timestamp value to occur. Otherwise
an error is returned.
For a delete operation, the adjustment
only affects the value for the end column in the history table that
corresponds to the row-end column in the associated system-period
temporal table. Take these adjustments into consideration on subsequent
references to the table when there is a search for the transaction
start time in the row-begin column and row-end column for the SYSTEM_TIME
period of the associated system-period temporal table.
When
the history table is defined with ON DELETE ADD EXTRA ROW, the version
of the row prior to the delete is added to the history table. Values
for the row begin, row end, and any generated expression columns are
generated when this row is added. This information represents when
the row was deleted.
REXX: Variables
cannot be used in the DELETE statement within a REXX procedure. Instead, the DELETE
must be the object of a PREPARE and EXECUTE using parameter markers.
Syntax alternatives: The following keywords are
synonyms supported for compatibility to prior releases. These keywords
are non-standard and should not be used:
The keyword NONE can be used as a synonym for NC.
The keyword CHG can be used as a synonym for UR.
The keyword ALL can be used as a synonym for RS.
The FROM keyword is optional.

ExamplesExample 1: Delete department
(DEPTNO) ‘D11' from the DEPARTMENT table.
DELETE FROM DEPARTMENT
WHERE DEPTNO = 'D11'

Example 2: Delete all the departments from the
DEPARTMENT table (that is, empty the table).
DELETE FROM DEPARTMENT

Example 3: Use a Java program
statement to delete all the subprojects (MAJPROJ is NULL) from the
PROJECT table on the connection context 'ctx', for a department (DEPTNO)
equal to that in the host variable HOSTDEPT (java.lang.String).
#sql [ctx] { DELETE FROM PROJECT
WHERE DEPTNO = :HOSTDEPT
AND MAJPROJ IS NULL };

Example 4: Code a portion of a Java program that will be used to display retired
employees (JOB) and then, if requested to do so, remove certain employees
from the EMPLOYEE table on the connection context 'ctx'.
#sql iterator empIterator implements sqlj.runtime.ForUpdate
( ... );
empIterator C1;

#sql [ctx] C1 = { SELECT * FROM EMPLOYEE
WHERE JOB = 'RETIRED' };

#sql { FETCH C1 INTO ... };
while ( !C1.endFetch() ) {
System.out.println( ... );
...
if ( condition for deleting row ) {
#sql [ctx] { DELETE FROM EMPLOYEE
WHERE CURRENT OF C1 };
}
#sql { FETCH C1 INTO ... };
}
C1.close();

Parent topic: Statements