Parameter types

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands > Defining a command > Defining parameters > Defining parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands > Defining a command > Defining parameters

Parameter types
Different types of parameters are used for processing
basic commands and IBM-supplied commands.
The basic parameter types are (parameter TYPE value given
in parentheses) as follows:
Decimal (*DEC). The parameter value is a decimal number, which is passed
to the command processing program as a packed decimal value of the length
specified on the LEN parameter. Values specified with more fractional digits
than defined for the parameter are truncated.
Logical (*LGL). The parameter value is a logical value, '1' or '0', which
is passed to the command processing program as a character string of length
1 (F1 or F0).
Character (*CHAR). The parameter value is a character string, which can
be enclosed in single quotation marks and which is passed to the command processing
program as a character string of the length specified on the LEN parameter.
The value is passed with its single quotation marks removed, is left-aligned,
and is padded with blanks.
Name (*NAME). The parameter value is a character string that represents
a basic name. The maximum length of the name is 256 characters. The first
character is alphabetic (A-Z), $, #, or @. The remaining characters are the
same as the first character, but can also include the numbers 0 through 9,
underscores (_), and periods (.). The name can also be a string of characters
that begin and end with double quotation marks ("). The system passes the
value to the command processing program as a character string of the length
specified in the LEN parameter. The value is left-aligned and padded with
blanks. Normally, you use the *NAME type for object names. If you can enter
a special value such as *LIBL or *NONE for the name parameter, you must describe
the special value on the SPCVAL parameter. Then, if the display station user
enters one of the allowed special values for the parameter, the system bypasses
the rules for name verification.
Simple name (*SNAME). The parameter value is a character string that
follows the same naming rules as *NAME, except that no periods (.) are allowed.
Communications name (*CNAME). The parameter value is a character string
that follows the same naming rules as *NAME, except that no periods (.) or
underscores (_) are allowed.
Path name (*PNAME). The parameter value is a character string, which
can be enclosed in single quotation marks and which is passed to the command
processing program as a character string of the length specified on the LEN
parameter. The value is passed with its single quotation marks removed, is
left-aligned, and is padded with blanks.
Generic name (*GENERIC). The parameter value is a generic name, which
ends with an asterisk (*). If the name does not end with an asterisk, then
the generic name is assumed to be a complete object name. A generic name identifies
a group of objects whose names all begin with the characters preceding the
asterisk. For example, INV* identifies the objects whose names begin with
INV, such as INV, INVOICE, and INVENTORY. The generic name is passed to the
command processing program so that it can find the object names beginning
with the characters in the generic name.
Date (*DATE). The parameter value is a character string that is passed
to the command processing program. The character string uses the format cyymmdd (c =
century digit, y = year, m = month, d =
day). The system sets the century digit based on the year specified on the
date parameter for the command. If the specified year contained 4 digits,
the system sets the century digit to 0 for years that start with 19. The system
sets the century digit to 1 for years that start with 20. For years that are
specified with 2 digits, the system sets the century digit to 0 if yy equals
a number from 40 to 99. However, if yy equals a number from 00 through 39,
the system sets the century digit to 1. The user must enter the date on the
date parameter of the command in the format that is specified by the date
format (DATFMT) job attribute. The date separator (DATSEP) job attribute determines
the optional separator character to use for entering the date. Use the Change
Job (CHGJOB) command to change the DATFMT and DATSET job attributes . The
program reads dates with 2–digit years to be in the range of January 1, 1940,
to December 31, 2039. Dates with 4–digit years must be in the range of August
24, 1928, to May 9, 2071.
Time (*TIME). The parameter value is a character string. The system passes
this string to the command processing program in the format hhmmss (h =
hour, m = minute, s = second). The time
separator (TIMSEP) job attribute determines the optional separator to use
for entering the time. Use the Change Job (CHGJOB) command to change the TIMSEP
job attribute.
Hexadecimal (*HEX). The parameter value is a hexadecimal value. The
characters specified must be 0 through F. The value is passed to the CPP
as hexadecimal (EBCDIC) characters (2 hexadecimal digits per byte), and is
right adjusted and padded with zeros. If the value is enclosed in single
quotation marks, an even number of digits is required.
Zero elements (*ZEROELEM). The parameter value is considered to be a list
of zero elements for which no value can be specified in the command. This
parameter type is used to prevent a value from being entered for a parameter
that is a list even though the command processing program (CPP) expects a
value. For example, if two commands use the same CPP, one command could pass
a list for a parameter, and the other command may not have any values to pass.
The parameter for the second command would be defined with TYPE(*ZEROELEM).
Integer (*INT2 or *INT4). The parameter value is an integer that is passed
as a 2-byte or 4-byte signed binary number. You can declare binary numbers
in a CL procedure or program as variables of TYPE(*INT). You can also use
TYPE(*CHAR) and process them with the %BINARY built-in function.
Unsigned integer (*UINT2 or *UINT4). The parameter value is an integer
that is passed as a 2-byte or 4-byte unsigned binary number. You can declare
binary numbers in a CL procedure or program as variables of TYPE(*UINT). You
can also use TYPE(*CHAR) and process them with the %BINARY built-in function.
Null (*NULL). The parameter value is a null pointer, which is always passed
to the command processing program as a place holder. The only PARM keywords
valid for this parameter type are KWD, MIN, and MAX.
Command string (*CMDSTR). The parameter value is a command. You can use
CL variables to specify parameters in the command that are specified in the
*CMDSTR parameter. However, you cannot use them to specify the entire *CMDSTR
parameter. For example, "SBMJOB CMD(DSPLIB LIB(&LIBVAR))" is valid in
a CL Program or procedure, but "SBMJOB CMD(&CMDVAR)" is not.
Statement label. The statement label identifies the first of a series
of QUAL or ELEM statements that further describe the qualified name or the
mixed list being defined by this PARM statement.

The following parameter types are for IBM-supplied commands only.
Expression (*X). The parameter value is a
character string, variable name, or numeric value. The value is passed as
a numeric value if it contains only digits, a plus or minus sign, a decimal
point, or all of them; otherwise, it is passed as a character string.
Variable name (*VARNAME). The parameter value is a variable name, which
is passed to the command processing program as a character string. The value
is left-aligned and is padded with blanks. A variable is a name that refers
to an actual data value during processing. A variable name can be as long
as 10 alphanumeric characters (the first of which must be alphabetic) preceded
by an ampersand (&); for example, &PARM. If the name of your variable
does not follow the naming convention used on the i5/OS® operating
system, you must enclose the name in single quotation marks.
Command (*CMD). The parameter value is a command. For example, the CL
command IF has a parameter named THEN whose value must be another command.

Parent topic: Defining parameters