XML text search

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Text search argument syntax > Text search argument syntax

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Text search argument syntax

XML text search
Based on a subset of the XPath language with
extensions for text search, XML text search allows you to index and
search XML documents so that structural elements can be used separately
or can be combined with free text in queries.
Structural elements are tag names, attribute names, and attribute
values.
The following list highlights the key features of XML search:XML structural search
By including special opaque terms in queries, you
can search XML documents for structural elements (tag names, attribute
names, and attribute values) and text that is scoped by those elements.

XML query tokenization
Free text in XML query terms is tokenized the same
way that text in non-XML query terms is tokenized, except that (nested)
opaque terms are not supported. Synonyms, wildcard characters, phrases,
and lemmatization are supported.

Numeric values
Predicates that compare attribute values to number,
date, or dateTime data types are supported.

Complete match
The = (equal sign) operator with a string argument
in a predicate calls for a an exact match of all tokens in the string
with all tokens in the identified text span. The order is NOT significant.

No UIMA access
Unstructured Information Management Architecture (UIMA) is used
for tokenization in XML search, but user-written annotators are not
supported.

XML text search grammar
A subset of the XPath language, which is defined by an
Extended Backus-Naur Form (EBNF) grammar, is supported by the XML
search query parser. Queries that do not conform to the supported
grammar are rejected by the query parser, which throws an exception.
Examples: XPath text search
All valid XPath queries that are sent to the XML parser
must be written in a subset of the XPath language using opaque terms.
Opaque terms are not parsed by the linguistic text search parser.

Parent topic: Text search argument syntax