Using a sender copy message to obtain a reply

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Ways of handling replies to inquiry messages > Ways of handling replies to inquiry messages

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Ways of handling replies to inquiry messages

Using a sender copy message to obtain a reply
When an inquiry message is sent, it expects a reply. To allow the
sender of an inquiry message to obtain a reply, a sender copy message is issued
and associated internally with the inquiry message.
A sender copy message is a copy
of the inquiry message that is used by the sender to obtain the reply that
is sent to its associated inquiry message. Sending an inquiry and obtaining
the reply can be done rather easily when the Send User Message (SNDUSRMSG) command
is used in a source program. If the SNDUSRMSG command
is not used, the function to send an inquiry and obtain the reply can be done
by the Send Program Message (SNDPGMMSG) and Receive
Message (RCVMSG) commands in a CL source program. An inquiry can
be sent with the SNDPGMMSG command and the reply can be
obtained with the RCVMSG command. For example, when an
inquiry message is sent with the SNDPGMMSG command, the
message reference key (MRK) of the sender copy can be returned on the KEYVAR
parameter of the SNDPGMMSG command. The sender copy message
is placed on the reply message queue that is specified on the SNDPGMMSG command.
When a reply is sent to the inquiry message, internal message handling also
sends the same reply to the sender copy message. Then the program can obtain
the reply with the RCVMSG command by doing
the following tasks:
Using the MRK of the sender copy from the KEYVAR parameter of SNDPGMMSG and
specify it on the MSGKEY parameter of the RCVMSG command.
Specifying a message type of reply.
Providing a wait time to allow time for a reply to be sent to the inquiry
message.

Parent topic: Ways of handling replies to inquiry messages

Related tasks
Example: Sending an immediate message and handling a reply

Related reference
Examples: Sending messages