Using the system reply list

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Ways of handling replies to inquiry messages > Ways of handling replies to inquiry messages

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Ways of handling replies to inquiry messages

Using the system reply list
By using the system reply list, you can specify that the system
automatically issues the reply to specified predefined inquiry messages.
Only inquiry messages can be automatically responded to with
the system reply list.
The system reply list contains message identifiers,
optional compare data that must match the message data in the inquiry message,
a reply value for each message, and a dump attribute that effectively does
DSPJOB OUTPUT(*PRINT). The system reply list applies only to predefined inquiry
messages that are sent by a job that uses the system reply list. You specify
that a job is to use the system reply list for inquiry messages on the INQMSGRPY(*SYSRPYL)
parameter on the following commands:
Batch Job (BCHJOB)
Submit Job (SBMJOB)
Change Job (CHGJOB)
Create Job Description (CRTJOBD)
Change Job Description (CHGJOBD)

When a predefined inquiry message is sent by a job that uses the system
reply list, the system searches the reply list in ascending sequence number
order for an entry that matches the message identifier and, optionally, the
compare data of the inquiry message. If an entry is found, the reply specified
is issued and the user is not required to enter a reply. If an entry is not
found, the message is sent to the display station user for interactive jobs
or system operator for batch jobs.
The system reply list is shipped
with the system with the following initial entries defined.
Sequence number
Message identifier
Compare value
Reply
Dump

10
CPA0700
*NONE
D
*YES

20
RPG0000
*NONE
D
*YES

30
CBE0000
*NONE
D
*YES

40
PLI0000
*NONE
D
*YES

These entries indicate that a reply of D is to be sent and a job
dump is to be taken if the message CPA0700-CPA0799, RPG0000-RPG9999, CBE0000-CBE9999,
or PLI0000-PLI9999 (which indicate a program failure) is sent by a job using
the system reply list. For the system to use these entries, you must specify
that the jobs are to use the system reply list by setting the inquiry message
reply job attribute to *SYSRPYL.
To add other inquiry messages to the
system reply list, use the Add Reply List Entry (ADDRPYLE) command.
On this command you can specify the sequence number, the message identifier,
optional compare data, compare data CCSID, reply action, and the dump attribute.
The ADDRPYLE command function can be easily accessed by using the Work
with System Reply List Entries (WRKRPYLE) command.
The following
reply actions can be specified for the inquiry messages that are placed on
the system reply list (the parameter value is given in parentheses):
Send the default reply for the inquiry messages (*DFT). In this case,
the default reply for the message is sent. If the message ID does not identify
a default reply value the *N is sent as the reply.The message is not displayed,
and no default handling program is called.
Require the workstation user or system operator to respond to the message
(*RQD). If the message queue to which the message is sent (workstation message
queue for interactive jobs and QSYSOPR for batch jobs) is in break mode, the
message is displayed, and the workstation user must respond to the message.
This option operates as if the system reply list were not being used.
Send the reply specified in the system reply list entry (message reply,
32 characters maximum). In this case, the specified reply is sent as the
response to the message. The message is not displayed, and no default handling
program is called.

The following commands add entries to the system reply list for messages
RPG1241, RPG1200, CPA4002, CPA5316, and any other inquiry messages:
ADDRPYLE SEQNBR(15) MSGID(RPG1241) RPY(C)
ADDRPYLE SEQNBR(18) MSGID(RPG1200) RPY(*DFT) DUMP(*YES)
ADDRPYLE SEQNBR(22) MSGID(CPA4002) RPY(*RQD) + CMPDTA('QSYSPRT')
ADDRPYLE SEQNBR(25) MSGID(CPA4002) RPY(G)
ADDRPYLE SEQNBR(27) MSGID(CPA5316) RPY(I) DUMP(*NO) +
CMPDTA('QSYSPRT' 21)
ADDRPYLE SEQNBR(9999) MSGID(*ANY) RPY(*DFT)

The system reply list now appears as follows.
Sequence number
Message identifier
Compare value (b is a blank)
Compare start position
Reply
Dump

10
CPA0700
 
1
D
*YES

15
RPG1241
 
1
C
*NO

18
RPG1200
 
1
*DFT
*YES

20
RPG0000
 
1
D
*YES

22
CPA4002
'QSYSPRT'
1
*RQD
*NO

25
CPA4002
 
1
G
*NO

27
CPA5316
'QSYSPRT'
21
I
*NO

30
CBE0000
 
1
D
*YES

40
PLI0000
 
1
D
*YES

9999
*ANY
 
1
*DFT
*NO

For a job that uses this system reply list, the following occurs
when the messages that were added to the reply list are sent by the job:
For sequence number 15, whenever an RPG1241 message is sent by a job that
uses the system reply list, a reply of C is sent and the job is not dumped.
For sequence number 18, a generic message identifier is used so whenever
an RPG1200 inquiry message is sent by the job, the default reply is sent.
The default reply can be the default reply specified in the message description
or the system default reply. Before the default reply is sent, the job is
dumped. The previous entry (sequence number 15) that was added overrides
this entry for message RPG1241, so RPG1241 takes the action for sequence number
15, not 18.
For sequence number 22, if the inquiry message CPA4002 is sent with the
compare data of QSYSPRT, the message is sent to the display station user,
and the user must issue the reply. When a compare value is specified without
a start position, the compare value is compared to the message data beginning
in position 1 of the substitution data in the message.
Sequence number
22 tests for a printer device name of QSYSPRT. For an example of testing
one substitution variable with a different start position, see sequence number
27.

For sequence number 25, if the inquiry message CPA4002 (verify alignment
on printer &1) is sent with the compare not equal to QSYSPRT, a reply
of G is sent. The job is not dumped. Sequence number 22 requires an operator
response to the forms alignment message if the printer device is QSYSPRT.
Sequence number 25 defines that if the forms alignment inquiry message occurs
for any other device, to assume a default response of G=Go.
For sequence number 27, if the inquiry message CPA5316 is sent with the
compare data of TESTEDFILETSTLIBRARYQSYSPRT, a reply of I is
sent. When a compare value and a start position are specified, the compare
value is compared with the message data of the inquiry message beginning with
the start position. In this case, position 21 is the beginning of the third
substitution variable. For message CPA5316, the first four substitution variables
are as follows.
&1
ODP file name
*CHAR
10

&2
ODP library name
*CHAR
10

&3
ODP device name
*CHAR
10

&4
Line number for first line
*BIN
2

Therefore, sequence number 27 tests for an ODP device name of QSYSPRT
before sending a reply.

For sequence number 9999, the message identifier of *ANY
applies to any predefined inquiry message that is not matched by an entry
with a lower sequence number, and the default reply for these inquiry messages
is sent. If this entry were not included in the system reply list, the display
station user would have to respond to all predefined inquiry messages that
were not included in the system reply list.

When the compare value contains *CCHAR data, the message data that
is from the sending function is converted to the CCSID of the message data
that is stored in the system reply list before the compare is made. The system
converts data that is of type *CCHAR only.
CAUTION:The following
restrictions apply when using *CCHAR data as compare data:

You cannot mix *CCHAR data with other data when adding this type of reply
list entry.
You cannot include the length of the *CCHAR data in the compare data.

If you mix *CCHAR data or include the length of the *CCHAR data, unpredictable
results may occur.

An entry remains on the system reply list
until you use the Remove Reply List Entry (RMVRPYLE) command
to remove it. You can use the Change Reply List Entry (CHGRPYLE) command
to change the attributes of a reply list entry, and you can use the Work
with System Reply List Entry (WRKRPYLE) command to display the reply
entries currently in the reply list.
The job log receives a completion
message indicating a successful change when the system reply list is updated
using ADDRPYLE, CHGRPYLE, or RMVRPYLE. The history log QHST also receives
a completion message to record the change.
If messages are added to
the system reply list, it is helpful to have a CL program created to add the
entries. For example, if the reply list is damaged and gets cleared after
an IPL, the CL program can be called to re-add the entries, rather than having
users re-add entries manually.
If a program has not
been created to update system reply list entries, there are some alternatives
to re-establish the system reply list after it has been lost:After changes have been made to the system replay list, use the Retrieve
System Information (RTVSYSINF) command to save data to a library.
Note that this also saves other system information in addition to the system
reply list. Then later, when the system reply list needs to be updated, the Update
System Information (UPDSYSINF) command can be used. The
UPDSYSINF command uses the data that was saved with the RTVSYSINF command.
Another alternative is to restore the system reply list from a backup.
This assumes that a save operation of the system has been done and all the
necessary entries were added to the system reply list before the save operation.
A slip installation of the base operating system needs to be done with the
following steps:With the key in MANUAL mode, do an IPL.
On the DST IPL/install screen, select option 2 to install.
On the Install Operating System screen (that is the time/date screen),
select option 2 to change install options.
On the Specify Install Options screen, select option 1 to restore program
and language options from media.
On the Specify Restore Options screen, select option 1 to restore for
MESSAGE REPLY LIST. It is about the third item on the screen.Note: Usually,
the default value of this screen is 2 or 3 to indicate not to restore the
item.

Continue the installation and the command entry display should be shown.
Take the key out of manual mode.

Parent topic: Ways of handling replies to inquiry messages

Related tasks
Placing a message queue in break mode automatically
Break-handling programs

Related information
Add Message Description (ADDMSG) command