How SQL statements are invoked

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

How SQL statements are invoked
The SQL statements described in this chapter are classified
as executable or nonexecutable. The Invocation section
in the description of each statement indicates whether the statement
is executable.
An executable statement can be invoked in any of
the following ways:
Embedded in an application program
Dynamically prepared and executed
Issued interactively

Note: Statements embedded in REXX or processed using RUNSQLSTM are prepared
and executed dynamically.
Depending on the statement, some or all of these methods
can be used. The Invocation section in the description of each
statement tells you which methods can be used.
A nonexecutable statement can only be embedded
in an application program.

Embedding a statement in an application program
SQL statements can be included in a source program that
will be submitted to the precompiler by using the CRTSQLCBL, CRTSQLCBLI,
CRTSQLCI, CRTSQLCPPI, CRTSQLPLI, CRTSQLRPG, or CRTSQLRPGI commands.
Such statements are said to be embedded in the program.
Dynamic preparation and execution
An application program can dynamically build an SQL statement
in the form of a character string placed in a variable. In general,
the statement is built from some data available to the program (for
example, input from a workstation).
Static invocation of a select-statement
A select-statement can be included as a part of the (nonexecutable)
statement DECLARE CURSOR.
Dynamic invocation of a select-statement
An application program can dynamically build a select-statement in
the form of a character string placed in a variable.
Interactive invocation
A capability for entering SQL statements from a workstation
is part of the architecture of the database manager. A statement entered in
this way is said to be issued interactively.

Parent topic: Statements