RECORD clause - Format 2

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—File and Sort Description Entries > RECORD Clause > RECORD Clause

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Data Division > Data Division—File and Sort Description Entries > RECORD Clause

RECORD clause - Format 2

Format 2 is the recommended format when dealing with variable records.

RECORD Clause - Format 2

>>-RECORD--+----+--VARYING--+----+--+------+-------------------->
    '-IS-' '-IN-' '-SIZE-'   

>--+---------------------+--+---------------+--+------------+--->
   '-+------+--integer-4-' '-TO--integer-5-' '-CHARACTERS-'   
    '-FROM-'    

>--+--------------------------------+--------------------------><
   '-DEPENDING--+----+--data-name-1-'   
    '-ON-'    

integer-4
Specifies the minimum number of character positions to be contained
in any record of the file. If integer-4 is not specified, the minimum number
of character positions to be contained in any record of the file is equal
to the smallest number of character positions described for a record in that
file. If specified, integer-4 must be nonzero and less than integer-5.
integer-5
Specifies the maximum number of character positions in any record of
the file. If integer-5 is not specified, the maximum number of character
positions in any record of the file is equal to the greatest number of character
positions described for a record in that file.
data-name-1
Must be an elementary unsigned integer.
If data-name-1 is specified:
The number of character positions in the record must be placed into the
data item referenced by data-name-1 before any RELEASE, REWRITE, or WRITE
statement is executed for the file.
The execution of a DELETE, RELEASE, REWRITE, START, or WRITE statement
or the unsuccessful execution of a READ or RETURN statement does not alter
the contents of the data item referenced by data-name-1.
After the successful execution of a READ or RETURN statement for the file,
the contents of the data item referenced by data-name-1 indicate the number
of character positions in the record just read.

The number of character positions associated with a record description
is determined by the sum of the number of character positions in all elementary
data items (excluding redefinitions and renamings), plus any implicit FILLER
due to synchronization.
If a table is specified, the minimum and maximum number of table elements
described in the record are used in the summation above, to determine the
minimum and maximum number of character positions associated with the record
description.
If the number of character positions in the logical record to be written
is less than integer-4 or greater than integer-5, the output statement is
unsuccessful and, except during execution of a RELEASE statement, the associated
I-O status key is set to a value indicating the cause of the condition.
During the execution of a RELEASE, REWRITE, or WRITE statement, the number
of character positions in the record is determined by the following conditions:
If data-name-1 is specified, by the content of the data item referenced
by data-name-1.
If data-name-1 is not specified and the record does not contain a variable
occurrence data item, by the number of character positions in the record.
If data-name-1 is not specified and the record contains a variable occurrence
data item, by the sum of the fixed portion and that portion of the table described
by the number of occurrences at the time of execution of the output statement.

During the execution of a READ ... INTO or RETURN ... INTO statement, the
number of character positions in the current record that participate as the
sending data items in the implicit MOVE statement is determined by the following
conditions:
If data-name-1 is specified, by the content of the data item referenced
by data-name-1.
If data-name-1 is not specified, by the value that would have been moved
into the data item referenced by data-name-1 had data-name-1 been specified.

Parent topic: RECORD Clause