ROLLING Phrase

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > WRITE Statement > Indexed and Relative Files > TRANSACTION (Nonsubfile) > TRANSACTION (Nonsubfile)

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > WRITE Statement > Indexed and Relative Files > TRANSACTION (Nonsubfile)

ROLLING Phrase
The ROLLING phrase allows you to move lines displayed on the workstation
screen. All or some of the lines on the screen can be rolled up or down.
The lines vacated by the rolled lines are cleared, and can have another screen
format written into them. This phrase is only valid for display devices.
ROLLING is specified in the WRITE statement that is writing a new format
to the workstation screen. You must specify whether the write is before or
after the roll, the range of lines you want to roll, how many lines you want
to roll these lines, and whether the roll operation is up or down.
After lines are rolled, the fields on these lines retain their DDS display
attributes, for example, underlining, but lose their DDS usage attributes,
for example, input-capability. Fields on lines that are written and then
rolled (BEFORE ROLLING phrase) also lose their usage attributes.
If any part of a format is rolled, the entire format loses its usage attributes.
If more than one format exists, only the rolled formats lose their usage
attributes.
When you specify the ROLLING phrase, the following general rules apply.
The DDS record level keyword ALWROL must be specified for every record
format written in a WRITE statement containing the ROLLING phrase.
Other DDS keywords mutually exclusive with the ALWROL keyword must not
be used.
Either of the DDS keywords, CLRL or OVERLAY, must be specified for a record
format that is to be written and rolled to prevent the display screen from
being cleared when that record format is written.
All the identifiers and literals must represent positive integer values.
The roll starting line number (identifier-5 or literal-4) must not exceed
the ending line number (identifier-6 or literal-5).
The contents of lines that are rolled outside of the window specified
by the starting and ending line numbers disappear.

For more information, see the DB2® for
i section of the Database and File Systems category in the IBM® i
Information Center at this Web site - http://www.ibm.com/systems/i/infocenter/.

Parent topic: TRANSACTION (Nonsubfile)