ALTER TRIGGER

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

ALTER TRIGGER
The ALTER TRIGGER statement changes the description of
the trigger at the current server.
InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared.
AuthorizationIf ENABLE or DISABLE is specified,
the privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement must
include at least one of the following:
For the trigger identified in the statement:The system authority *USE on the Change Physical File Trigger
(CHGPFTRG) command,
The ALTER privilege on the table or view on which the trigger
is defined, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the trigger.

Database administrator authority

If the SECURED option is specified, or if the NOT SECURED
option is specified and the trigger is currently secured: The authorization ID of the statement must have security administrator authority. See Administrative authority.

For information about the system authorities corresponding
to SQL privileges, see Corresponding
System Authorities When Checking Privileges to a Table or View.
SyntaxALTER TRIGGERtrigger-name1SECUREDNOT SECUREDENABLEDISABLE
Descriptiontrigger-name
Identifies
the trigger to be altered. The trigger-name must identify
a trigger that exists at the current server. It can be either an SQL
or a native trigger.

SECURED or NOT SECURED
Specifies whether the trigger is considered secure for row and
column access control. If row or column access control is active for
the triggering table, altering the trigger from SECURED to NOT SECURED
will return an error.SECURED
Specifies that the trigger is considered secure for row access
control and column access control.
SECURED must be specified for a trigger whose subject table is
using row access control or column access control. SECURED must also
be specified for a trigger that is created for a view and one or more
of the underlying tables in the view definition is using row access
control or column access control.
NOT SECURED
Specifies that the trigger is considered not secure for row access
control and column access control.
NOT SECURED must not be specified for a trigger whose subject
table is using row access control or column access control. NOT SECURED
must also not be specified for a trigger that is created for a view
and one or more of the underlying tables in the view definition is
using row access control or column access control.

ENABLE or DISABLE
Specifies the state to which the trigger is to be changed.ENABLE
The trigger will be called during the appropriate
data change operations.
DISABLE
The trigger will not be called during the appropriate
data change operations.

NotesAltering
a trigger from NOT SECURED to SECURED: The trigger is considered
secure after the ALTER TRIGGER statement is executed. DB2® treats the SECURED attribute as an assertion
that declares that the user has established an audit procedure for
all activities in the trigger body. If a secure trigger references
user-defined functions, DB2 assumes
those functions are secure without validation. If those functions
can access sensitive data, a user with security administrator authority needs
to ensure that those functions are allowed to access that data and
that an audit procedure is in place for those functions, and that
all subsequent ALTER FUNCTION statements are being reviewed through
this audit process.
Transition variable values and row and column access
control: Row and column access control is not enforced for transition
variables and transition tables. If row or column access control is
enforced for the triggering table, row permissions and column masks
are not applied to the initial values of transition variables and
transition tables. Row and column access control enforced for the
triggering table is also ignored for transition variables and transition
tables that are referenced in the trigger body or are passed as arguments
to user-defined functions invoked within the trigger body. To ensure
there are no security concerns for SQL statements accessing sensitive
data in transition variables and transition tables, the trigger must
be created with the SECURED option. If the trigger is not secure,
row access control and column access control cannot be enforced for
the triggering table.
ExampleExample 1: Change the definition
of trigger TRIGGER1 to secured:
ALTER TRIGGER TRIGGER1
SECURED
Example 2: Change
the definition of trigger TRIGGER1 to not secured:
ALTER TRIGGER TRIGGER1
NOT SECURED

Parent topic: Statements