LOCATE

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

LOCATE
The LOCATE function returns the starting position of the
first occurrence of one string (called the search-string)
within another string (called the source-string).
If the search-string is not found and neither argument is null,
the result is zero. If the search-string is found, the result
is a number from 1 to the actual length of the source-string.
If the optional start is specified, it indicates
the character position in the source-string at which the search
is to begin.
LOCATE(search-string,source-string,start)
search-string
An expression that specifies the string that is to be searched
for. search-string may be any built-in numeric, datetime, or string expression. It must be compatible
with the source-string. A numeric or datetime argument
is cast to a character string before evaluating the function. For
more information about converting numeric and datetime to
a character string, see VARCHAR.
source-string
An expression that specifies the source string in which the search
is to take place. source-string may be any
built-in numeric, datetime, or string expression.
A numeric or datetime argument is cast to a
character string before evaluating the function. For more information
about converting numeric and datetime to a character
string, see VARCHAR.
start
An expression that specifies the position within source-string at
which the search is to start. start may be
any built-in numeric, character string, or graphic string expression.
If the value is not of type INTEGER, it is implicitly cast to INTEGER
before evaluating the function. The value must be greater than zero. If start is
specified, the function is similar to:
  POSITION( search-string , SUBSTRING(source-string,start) ) + start - 1
If start is
not specified, the function is equivalent to:
    POSITION( search-string , source-string ) )
For
more information, see POSITION.

The result of the function is a large integer. If any
of the arguments can be null, the result can be null; if any of the
arguments is null, the result is the null value.
The LOCATE function operates on a character
basis. Because LOCATE operates on a character-string basis, any shift-in
and shift-out characters are not required to be in exactly the same
position and their only significance is to indicate which characters
are SBCS and which characters are DBCS.
If the CCSID of the search-string is
different than the CCSID of the source-string,
it is converted to the CCSID of the source-string.
If a collating sequence other than *HEX is in effect when
the statement that contains the LOCATE function is executed and the
arguments are SBCS data, mixed data, or Unicode data, then the result
is obtained by comparing weighted values for each value in the set.
The weighted values are based on the collating sequence. An ICU collating
sequence table may not be specified with the LOCATE function.
ExampleSelect RECEIVED and SUBJECT columns as well as the starting position
of the words 'GOOD' within the NOTE_TEXT column for all entries in
the IN_TRAY table that contain these words.   SELECT RECEIVED, SUBJECT, LOCATE('GOOD', NOTE_TEXT)
    FROM IN_TRAY
    WHERE LOCATE('GOOD', NOTE_TEXT) <> 0

Assume that NOTE is a VARCHAR(128) column, encoded in Unicode
UTF-8, that contains the value 'Jürgen lives on Hegelstraße'.
Find the character position of the character 'ß' in the string.  SELECT LOCATE( 'ß', NOTE ), POSSTR( NOTE_TEXT, 'ß')
    FROM T1
Returns the value 26
for LOCATE and 27 for POSSTR.

Parent topic: Scalar functions