CL command documentation format

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL commands > CL command information and documentation > CL command information and documentation

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL commands > CL command information and documentation

CL command documentation format
Command documentation for CL commands
is provided in the form of online help on the system and topics in the i5/OS® Information
Center. In the information center,
each command description follows the same format.
Each command description includes the parts discussed in the following
subtopics. At the beginning of the command description documentation, there
are links to the Parameters, Examples, and Error messages sections.
It should be noted that, because a command is an i5/OS object,
each command can be authorized for specific users or authorized for use by
the public (all users authorized in some way to use the system). Because this
is true for nearly every command, it is not stated in each command description.

CL environment classification
At the very top of the command description documentation is the
environment classification. The environment classification describes where
the command is allowed to run.
CL threadsafe classification
The threadsafe classification indicates whether a command is threadsafe.
Each command has a threadsafe classification.
CL command description
The general description briefly explains the
function of the command and any relationships it has with a program or with
other commands. If there are restrictions on the use of the command, they
are described under the heading Restrictions. The general description of the
command follows the environment and threadsafe classification.
CL parameters
The Parameters section provides a parameter summary table.
CL command coding examples
The Examples section provides at least one coded example
for the command. Where necessary, several examples are provided for commands
with many parameters and several logical combinations.
CL error messages
The Error messages section lists error messages that can
be issued for the command.

Parent topic: CL command information and documentation

Related information
Security reference