Dynamic preparation and execution

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > How SQL statements are invoked > How SQL statements are invoked

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > How SQL statements are invoked

Dynamic preparation and execution
An application program can dynamically build an SQL statement
in the form of a character string placed in a variable. In general,
the statement is built from some data available to the program (for
example, input from a workstation).
The statement can be prepared for execution using the
(embedded) statement PREPARE and executed by the (embedded) statement
EXECUTE. Alternatively, the (embedded) statement EXECUTE IMMEDIATE
can be used to prepare and execute a statement in one step. In Java™, the statement can be prepared
for execution by means of the Statement, PreparedStatement, and CallableStatement
classes, and executed by means of their respective execute() methods.
A statement that is dynamically prepared must not contain
references to host variables. Instead, the statement can contain parameter
markers. See PREPARE for rules concerning
the parameter markers. When the prepared statement is executed, the
parameter markers are effectively replaced by the current values of
the variables specified in the EXECUTE statement. See EXECUTE for rules concerning this replacement.
After a statement is prepared, it can be executed several times with
different values of variables. Parameter markers are not allowed in
EXECUTE IMMEDIATE.
In C, COBOL, PL/I, REXX, and RPG, the successful or unsuccessful
execution of the statement is indicated by the values returned in
the stand-alone SQLCODE or SQLSTATE after the EXECUTE (or EXECUTE
IMMEDIATE) statement. The SQL return code should be checked as described
above for embedded statements. See the topic SQL diagnostic information for
more information. In Java,
the successful or unsuccessful execution of the statement is handled
by Java Exceptions.

Parent topic: How SQL statements are invoked