Character and graphic string assignments

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Assignments and comparisons > String assignments > String assignments

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Assignments and comparisons > String assignments

Character and graphic string assignments
The following rules apply when the assignment target is
a string.
When a datetime data type is involved, see Datetime assignments. For the special considerations that
apply when a distinct type is involved in an assignment, especially
to a variable, see Distinct type assignments.
Assignments from numeric to stringsWhen
a number is assigned to a string data type, it is converted to the
target string data type using the rules for a CAST specification.
For more information, see CAST specification.
Storage assignment:The basic rule is that
the length of a string assigned to a column, parameter
of a function or procedure, or transition variable must not be
greater than the length attribute of the column or parameter. If the
string is longer than the length attribute of that column ,
parameter, or transition variable, an error is returned. Trailing
blanks are normally included in the length of the string. For storage
assignments, however, trailing blanks are not included in the length
of the string.
When a string is assigned
to a fixed-length string column, parameter, or transition
variable and the length of the string is less than the length
attribute of the target, the string is padded on the right with the
necessary number of single-byte, double-byte, or UTF-16 or UCS-2 blanks.1 The pad character
is always a blank, even for bit data.
Retrieval assignment:The length of a string assigned to a
variable (but not a parameter or transition variable) can
be greater than the length attribute of the variable. When a string
is assigned to a variable and the string is longer than the length
attribute of the variable, the string is truncated on the right by
the necessary number of characters. When this occurs, an SQLSTATE
of '01004' is assigned to the RETURNED_SQLSTATE condition area item
in the SQL Diagnostics Area (or the value 'W' is assigned to the SQLWARN1
field of the SQLCA). Furthermore, if an indicator variable is provided,
it is set to the original length of the string. If only the NUL-terminator
is truncated for a C NUL-terminated host variable and the *NOCNULRQD
option was specified on the CRTSQLCI or CRTSQLCPPI command (or CNULRQD(*NO)
on the SET OPTION statement), an SQLSTATE of '01004' is assigned to
the RETURNED_SQLSTATE condition area item in the SQL Diagnostics Area
(or the value of 'N' is assigned to the SQLWARN1 field of the SQLCA)
and a NUL is not placed in the variable.
When a string is assigned to a fixed-length variable and
the length of the string is less than the length attribute of the
target, the string is padded on the right with the necessary number
of single-byte, double-byte, or UTF-16 or UCS-2 blanks.1 The pad character
is always a blank, even for bit data.
When a string of length n is
assigned to a varying-length string variable with a maximum length
greater than n, the characters after the nth character
of the variable are undefined.
Assignments to mixed strings:If a string
contains mixed data, the assignment rules may require truncation within
a sequence of double-byte codes. To prevent the loss of the shift-in
character that ends the double-byte sequence, additional characters
may be truncated from the end of the string, and a shift-in character
added. In the truncated result, there is always an even number of
bytes between each shift-out character and its matching shift-in character.
Assignments to C NUL-terminated strings:When
a string of length n is assigned to a C NUL-terminated string
variable with a length greater than n+1:
If the *CNULRQD option was specified on the CRTSQLCI or CRTSQLCPPI
command (or CNULRQD(*YES) on the SET OPTION statement), the string
is padded on the right with x-n-1 blanks where x is the length of
the variable. The padded string is then assigned to the variable and
the NUL-terminator is placed in the next character position.
If the *NOCNULRQD precompiler option was specified on the CRTSQLCI
or CRTSQLCPPI command (or CNULRQD(*NO) on the SET OPTION statement),
the string is not padded on the right. The string is assigned to the
variable and the NUL-terminator is placed in the next character position.

Conversion rules for assignmentsA string assigned to a column, variable,
or parameter is first converted, if necessary, to the coded character
set of the target. Character conversion is necessary only if all of
the following are true:
The CCSIDs are different.
Neither CCSID is 65535.
The string is neither null nor empty.
Conversion between the two CCSIDs is required. For more information,
see Coded character sets and CCSIDs.

An error occurs if:
Conversion between the pair of CCSIDs is not defined. For more
information, see Coded character sets and CCSIDs.
A character of the string cannot be converted, and the operation
is assignment to a column or assignment to a host variable without
an indicator variable. For example, a double-byte character (DBCS)
cannot be converted to a column or host variable with a single-byte
character (SBCS) CCSID.

A warning occurs if:
A character of the string is converted to the substitution character.
A character of the string cannot be converted, and the assignment
is not to a column or to a host variable without an indicator variable.
For example, a DBCS character cannot be converted to a host variable
with an SBCS CCSID. In this case, the string is not assigned to the
host variable and the indicator variable is set to -2.

Parent topic: String assignments

1 UTF-16 or UCS-2 defines a blank
character at code point X'0020' and X'3000'. The database manager
pads with the blank at code point X'0020'. The database manager pads
UTF-8 with a blank at code point X'20'