Distributed relational database

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Concepts > Concepts

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Concepts

Distributed relational database
A distributed relational database consists of a
set of tables and other objects that are spread across different but
interconnected computer systems or logical partitions on the same
computer system. Each computer system has a relational database manager
that manages the tables in its environment. The database managers
communicate and cooperate with each other in a way that allows a database
manager to execute SQL statements on another computer system.
Distributed relational databases are built on formal requester-server
protocols and functions. An application requester supports
the application end of a connection. It transforms a database request
from the application into communication protocols suitable for use
in the distributed database network. These requests are received and
processed by an application server at the other end of the
connection.1 Working
together, the application requester and application server handle
the communication and location considerations so that the application
is isolated from these considerations and can operate as if it were
accessing a local database. A simple distributed relational database
environment is illustrated in Figure 1.
Figure 1. A Distributed Relational Database Environment
For more information about Distributed Relational Database Architecture™ (DRDA®)
communication protocols, see Open
Group Publications: DRDA Vol.
1: Distributed
Relational Database Architecture (DRDA)

Application servers
An activation group must be connected to the application
server of a database manager before SQL statements can be executed.
CONNECT (type 1) and CONNECT (type 2)
There are two types of CONNECT statements with the same
syntax but different semantics. CONNECT (type 1) is used for remote
unit of work. CONNECT (type 2) is used for distributed unit of work.
Remote unit of work
The remote unit of work facility provides for the
remote preparation and execution of SQL statements. An activation
group at computer system A can connect to an application server at
computer system B. Then, within one or more units of work, that activation
group can execute any number of static or dynamic SQL statements that
reference objects at B. After ending a unit of work at B, the activation
group can connect to an application server at computer system C, and
so on.
Application-directed distributed unit of work
The application-directed distributed unit of work facility also
provides for the remote preparation and execution of SQL statements
in the same fashion as remote unit of work. Like remote unit of work,
an activation group at computer system A can connect to an application
server at computer system B and execute any number of static or dynamic
SQL statements that reference objects at B before ending the unit
of work. All objects referenced in a single SQL statement must be
managed by the same application server. However, unlike remote unit
of work, any number of application servers can participate in the
same unit of work. A commit or rollback operation ends the unit of
work.
Data representation considerations
Different systems represent data in different ways. When
data is moved from one system to another, data conversion must sometimes
be performed. Products supporting DRDA will
automatically perform any necessary conversions at the receiving system.

Parent topic: Concepts

1 This is also known as a an application server.