POWER

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

POWER
The POWER function
returns the result of raising the first argument to the power of the
second argument.
POWER(expression-1,expression-2)
expression-1
An expression that returns a value of any built-in numeric, character-string,
or graphic-string data type.1 A
string argument is cast to double-precision floating point before
evaluating the function. For more information about converting strings
to double-precision floating point, see DOUBLE_PRECISION or DOUBLE.
expression-2
An expression that returns a value of any built-in numeric data
type. If the value of expression-1 is equal
to zero, then expression-2 must be greater
than or equal to zero. If the value of expression-1 is
less than zero, then expression-2 must be
an integer value.

If the data type of the argument is decimal floating-point,
the data type of the result is DECFLOAT(34). Otherwise, the result
of the function is a double-precision floating-point number. If both
arguments are 0, the result is 1. If an argument can be null, the
result can be null; if an argument is null, the result is the null
value.
NoteResults involving
DECFLOAT special values: If either argument is decimal floating-point,
both arguments are converted to DECFLOAT(34). For decimal floating-point
values the special values are treated as follows:If either argument is NaN or -NaN, NaN is returned.2
POWER®(Infinity, any valid
second argument) returns Infinity.
POWER(-Infinity, any valid
odd integer value) returns -Infinity.
POWER(-Infinity, any valid
even integer value) returns Infinity.
POWER(0,Infinity)
returns 0.
POWER(1,Infinity)
returns 1.
POWER(any number greater than 1,Infinity) returns Infinity.
POWER(any number greater than 0 and less than 1,Infinity) returns
0.
POWER(any number less than 0,Infinity) returns NaN. 2
If either argument is sNaN or -sNaN, a warning
or error is returned. 2

ExampleAssume the host variable HPOWER is an integer with value 3.   SELECT POWER(2,:HPOWER)
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1
Returns
the value 8.

Parent topic: Scalar functions

1 The result of the POWER function is exactly the
same as the result of exponentiation: expression-1 ** expression-2.2 If
*YES is specified for the SQL_DECFLOAT_WARNINGS query option, NaN is returned
with a warning