SFLCLR (Subfile Clear) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

SFLCLR (Subfile Clear) keyword for display files

You use this record-level keyword on the subfile-control
record format so that your program can clear the subfile of all records. This
keyword differs from the SFLDLT keyword in that the subfile is not deleted.

It differs from the SFLINZ keyword in that after being cleared,
the subfile contains no data. Clearing the subfile does not affect the display.
However, after being cleared, the subfile contains no active records.
This
keyword has no parameters.
When active records already exist in the
subfile and all are to be replaced, your program can send an output operation
to the subfile-control record format after selecting SFLCLR. This clears the
subfile and permits your program to write new records to the subfile (by issuing
output operations to the subfile record format while incrementing the relative
record number). Issuing an output operation to an already active subfile record
causes an error message to be returned to your program.
If SFLCLR is
in effect on an output operation and no records exist in the subfile, SFLCLR
is ignored.
This optional keyword is valid only for the subfile-control
record format. Display size condition names are not valid for this keyword.
An
option indicator is required for this keyword to prevent the IBM® i operating
system from clearing the subfile on every output operation to the subfile-control
record format.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the SFLCLR keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R SFLR SFL
A*
A* (at least one displayable field)
A*
00020A R SFLCTLR SFLCTL(SFLR)
00030A SFLPAG(17)
00040A SFLSIZ(17)
00050A 01 SFLDSP
00060A 01 SFLDSPCTL
00070A N01 SFLCLR
AThe subfile is displayed when option indicator 01 is
set on for an output operation to SFLCTLR, and the subfile is cleared when
option indicator 01 is set off for an output operation to SFLCTLR. Normally,
the option indicators specified for SFLCLR are the reverse of the option indicators
specified for the SFLDSP and SFLDSPCTL keywords.