Assigning Field Record Relation Indicators

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > RPG IV Indicators > Using Indicators > Field Record Relation Indicators > Field Record Relation Indicators

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > RPG IV Indicators > Using Indicators > Field Record Relation Indicators

Assigning Field Record Relation Indicators

You can use a record identifying indicator (01 through 99) in positions
67 and 68 to relate a field to a particular record type. When several
record types are specified in an OR relationship, all fields that
do not have a field record relation indicator in positions 67 and
68 are associated with all record types in the OR relationship. To
relate a field to just one record type, you enter the record identifying
indicator assigned to that record type in positions 67 and 68 (see Figure 1).

An indicator (01 through 99) that is not a record identifying indicator
can also be used in positions 67 and 68 to condition movement of the
field from the input area to the input fields.

Control fields, which you define with an L1 through L9 indicator
in positions 63 and 64 of the input specifications, and match fields,
which are specified by a match value (M1 through M9) in positions
65 and 66 of the input specifications, can also be related to a particular
record type in an OR relationship if a field record relation indicator
is specified. Control fields or match fields in the OR relationship
that do not have a field record relation indicator are used with all
record types in the OR relationship.

If two control fields have the same control level indicator or
two match fields have the same matching level value, a field record
relation indicator can be assigned to just one of the match fields.
In this case, only the field with the field record relation indicator
is used when that indicator is on. If none of the field record relation
indicators are on for that control field or match field, the field
without a field record relation indicator is used. Control fields
and match fields can only have entries of 01 through 99 or H1 through
H9 in positions 67 and 68.

You can use positions 67 and 68 to specify that the program accepts
and uses data from a particular field only when a certain condition
occurs (for example, when records match, when a control break occurs,
or when an external indicator is on). You can indicate the conditions
under which the program accepts data from a field by specifying indicators
L1 through L9, MR, or U1 through U8 in positions 67 and 68. Data from
the field named in positions 49 through 62 is accepted only when the
field record relation indicator is on.

External indicators are primarily used when file conditioning is
specified with the EXTIND(*INUx) keyword on the file description
specifications. However, they can be used even though file conditioning
is not specified.

A halt indicator (H1 through H9) in positions 67 and 68 relates
a field to a record that is in an OR relationship and also has a halt
indicator specified in positions 21 and 22.

Remember the following points when you use field record relation
indicators:

Control level (positions 63 and 64) and matching fields (positions
65 and 66) with the same field record relation indicator must be grouped
together.

Fields used for control level (positions 63 and 64) and matching
field entries (positions 65 and 66) without a field record relation
indicator must appear before those used with a field record relation
indicator.

Control level (positions 63 and 64) and matching fields (positions
65 and 66) with a field record relation indicator (positions 67 and
68) take precedence, when the indicator is on, over control level
and matching fields of the same level without an indicator.

Field record relations (positions 67 and 68) for matching and
control level fields (positions 63 through 66) must be specified with
record identifying indicators (01 through 99 or H1 through H9) from
the main specification line or an OR relation line to which the matching
field refers. If multiple record types are specified in an OR relationship,
an indicator that specifies the field relation can be used to relate
matching and control level fields to the pertinent record type.

Noncontrol level (positions 63 and 64) and matching field (positions
65 and 66) specifications can be interspersed with groups of field
record relation entries (positions 67 and 68).

The MR indicator can be used as a field record relation indicator
to reduce processing time when certain fields of an input record are
required only when a matching condition exists.

The number of control levels (L1 through L9) specified for different
record types in the OR relationship can differ. There can be no control
level for certain record types and a number of control levels for
other record types.

If all matching fields (positions 65 and 66) are specified with
field record relation indicators (positions 67 and 68), each field
record relation indicator must have a complete set of matching fields
associated with it.

If one matching field is specified without a field record relation
indicator, a complete set of matching fields must be specified for
the fields without a field record relation indicator.

Figure 1. Field Record Relation

*...1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7...
IFilename++SqNORiPos1+NCCPos2+NCCPos3+NCC................................
I........................Fmt+SPFrom+To+++DcField+++++++++L1M1FrPlMnZr....
IREPORT AA 14 1 C5
I OR 16 1 C6
I 20 30 FLDB
I 2 10 FLDA 07
*
* Indicator 07 was specified elsewhere in the program.
*
I 40 50 FLDC 14
I 60 70 FLDD 16

The file contains two different types of records, one identified
by a 5 in position 1 and the other by a 6 in position 1. The FLDC
field is related by record identifying indicator 14 to the record
type identified by a 5 in position 1. The FLDD field is related to
the record type having a 6 in position 1 by record identifying indicator
16. This means that FLDC is found on only one type of record (that
identified by a 5 in position 1) and FLDD is found only on the other
type. FLDA is conditioned by indicator 07, which was previously defined
elsewhere in the program. FLDB is found on both record types because
it is not related to any one type by a record identifying indicator.

Parent topic: Field Record Relation Indicators