Data Structures

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Defining Data and Prototypes > Defining Data and Prototypes

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Defining Data and Prototypes

Data Structures

The ILE RPG compiler allows you to define an area in storage
and the layout of the fields, called subfields, within the area. This
area in storage is called a data structure.

You define a data structure in free form
by specifying the DCL-DS operation code followed
by the data structure name and keywords.
You define a data structure in fixed form by specifying DS in positions 24 through
25 on a definition specification.

You can use a data structure to:

Define the same internal area multiple times using different data
formats

Define a data structure and its subfields in the same way a record
is defined.

Define multiple occurrences of a set of data.

Group non-contiguous data into contiguous internal storage locations.

Operate on all the subfields as a group using the name of the
data structure.

Operate on an individual subfield using its name.

Code the CONST keyword
if you want to prevent any changes to the data structure values.
See Defining a constant data structure for an example of a constant data structure.
When you code the CONST, any subfields
that are not explicitly initialized by the INZ keyword
for the data structure or the subfield are initialized to their RPG default values.
See When the INZ keyword is not specified.

There are four special data structures, each with
a specific purpose:

A data area data structure (identified by the *AUTO
parameter of the DTAARA keyword for a free-form
definition or a U in position 23 of
a fixed-form definition)

A file information data structure (identified by the keyword INFDS on a file description specification)

A program-status data structure (identified by the
PSDS keyword for a free-form definition, or by an S in position
23 of a fixed-form definition)

An indicator data structure (identified by the keyword INDDS on a file description specification).

Data structures can be either program-described or externally described,
except for indicator data structures, which are program-described
only.

One data structure can be defined like another
using the LIKEDS keyword.

A program-described data structure is identified by the
absence of the EXT or EXTNAME keywords for a free-form
definition, or by a blank in
position 22 of a fixed-form definition. The subfield definitions
for a program-described data structure must immediately follow the
data structure definition.

An externally described data structure,
identified by
the EXT keyword or the EXTNAME keyword for a free-form definition,
or by an E in position
22 of a fixed-form definition, has subfield descriptions contained
in an externally described file. At compile time, the ILE RPG compiler
uses the external name to locate and extract the external description
of the data structure subfields. If the EXTNAME keyword
is not specified, the name of the data structure
is used for the external file name.

Note: The data formats specified for the subfields in the external
description are used as the internal formats of the subfields by the
compiler. This differs from the way in which externally described
files are treated.

An external subfield name can be renamed in the program using
the keyword EXTFLD. The keyword PREFIX can be used to add a prefix
to the external subfield names that have not been renamed with EXTFLD.
Note that the data structure subfields are not affected by the PREFIX
keyword specified on a file-description specification even if the
file name is the same as the parameter specified in the EXTNAME keyword
when defining the data structure using an external file name. Additional
subfields can be added to an externally described data structure by
specifying program-described subfields immediately after the list
of external subfields.

You can also define an externally-described data structure using
the LIKEREC keyword

You can control the CCSID of alphanumeric subfields of
externally-described data structures
by specifying the CCSID(*EXACT) or CCSID(*NOEXACT) keyword on the
data structure.
If you specify CCSID(*EXACT), the alphanumeric subfields
will have the same CCSID as the fields in the file.
If you specify CCSID(*NOEXACT), or you do not specify the
CCSID keyword for the data structure,
the alphanumeric subfields will have the default
CCSID for alphanumeric definitions.
See CCSID(*EXACT | *NOEXACT) and
CCSID(*CHAR : *JOBRUN | *JOBRUNMIX | *UTF8 | *HEX | number)
for more information about alphanumeric CCSIDs.

Qualifying Data Structure Names

Array Data Structures

Defining Data Structure Parameters in a Prototype or Procedure Interface

Defining Data Structure Subfields

Special Data Structures

Data Structure Examples

Parent topic: Defining Data and Prototypes