Multi-file Processing with Match Fields

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > General File Considerations > Primary/Secondary Multi-file Processing > Primary/Secondary Multi-file Processing

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > General File Considerations > Primary/Secondary Multi-file Processing

Multi-file Processing with Match Fields

When match fields are used in multi-file processing, the program
selects the records for processing according to the contents of the
match fields. At the beginning of the first cycle, the program reads
one record from every primary/secondary input file and compares the
match fields in the records. If the records are in ascending order,
the program selects the record with the lowest match field. If the
records are in descending order, the program selects the record with
the highest match field.

When a record is selected from a file, the program reads the next
record from that file. At the beginning of the next program cycle,
the new record is compared with the other records in the read area
that are waiting for selection, and one record is selected for processing.

Records without match fields can also be included in the files.
Such records are selected for processing before records with match
fields. If two or more of the records being compared have no match
fields, selection of those records is determined by the priority of
the files from which the records came. The priority of the files
is:

Primary file, if specified

Secondary files in the order in which they are described on the
file description specifications.

When the primary file record matches one or more of the secondary
records, the MR (matching record) indicator is set on. The MR indicator
is on for detail time processing of a matching record through the
total time that follows the record. This indicator can be used to
condition calculation or output operations for the record that is
selected. When one of the matching records must be selected, the selection
is determined by the priority of the files from which the records
came.

Figure 1 shows the logic flow of multi-file processing.

A program can be written where only one input file is defined with
match fields and no other input files have match fields. The files
without the match fields are then processed completely according to
the previously mentioned priority of files. The file with the match
fields is processed last, and sequence checking occurs for that file.

Assigning Match Field Values (M1-M9)

Processing Matching Records

Parent topic: Primary/Secondary Multi-file Processing