offset-clause

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > subselect > subselect

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Queries > subselect

offset-clause
The offset-clause sets the number of rows to skip
before any rows are retrieved. It lets the database manager know that
the application does not want to start retrieving rows until offset-row-count rows
have been skipped. If offset-clause is not specified, the default
is equivalent to OFFSET 0 ROWS. An attempt to skip more rows than
the number of rows in the intermediate result table is handled the
same way as an empty result table.
OFFSEToffset-row-countROWROWS
offset-row-count
A numeric constant or numeric variable (except not a global variable)
that specifies the number of rows to skip before any rows are retrieved.
The numeric value is cast to BIGINT before processing. The value of offset-row-count must
be positive or zero1.
It cannot be the null value.

Determining a predictable set of rows to skip requires
the specification of an ORDER BY clause with sort keys that uniquely
identify the sort order of each row in the intermediate result table.
If the intermediate result table includes duplicate sort keys for
some rows, the order of the rows is not deterministic. If there is
no ORDER BY clause, the intermediate result table is not in a deterministic
order. If the order of the intermediate result table is not deterministic,
the set of skipped rows is unpredictable.
NotesAllowed
use of OFFSET: The offset-clause is only allowed as part
of the outer fullselect of a DECLARE CURSOR statement or a prepared select-statement.
It is not supported in interactive SQL.
select-list restriction: The select-list of
the fullselect containing an offset-clause must not contain
a NEXT VALUE sequence expression and must not contain a function that
is non-deterministic, external action, or modifies SQL data.
Syntax
alternatives: See the Notes entry associated with the fetch-first-clause for
alternative syntax to set the number of rows to skip when specifying
the maximum number of rows to retrieve.

Parent topic: subselect

1 The maximum supported value is 4294967288.