SFLRCDNBR (Subfile Record Number) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

SFLRCDNBR (Subfile Record Number) keyword for display files

You use this field-level keyword on the subfile-control
record format to specify that the page of the subfile to be displayed is the
page that contains the record whose relative record number is in this field.

If you do not specify this keyword, the IBM® i operating
system displays the first page of the subfile by default.
The format
of the keyword is: SFLRCDNBR[([CURSOR] [*TOP])]
If
CURSOR is specified, the cursor is placed in the subfile record whose relative
record number is identified by the contents of this field. The cursor is positioned
at the first input-capable field in the subfile record. If there is no input-capable
field, the cursor is positioned at the first output-only or constant field.
For example, if a page can contain three records, and nine records are contained
in the subfile, a SFLRCDNBR field value of 8 causes records 7, 8, and 9 to
be displayed. If CURSOR is specified, the cursor appears in record 8.
If
*TOP is specified, the subfile record whose relative record number is identified
by the contents of this field will display as the first record of the page
of the subfile records being displayed.
This field must be a zoned decimal
field with zero decimal positions. It must have the keyboard shift attribute
of signed numeric (S in position 35), and it can be up to 4 digits in length.
It must be defined as an output-only, an input/output, or a hidden field.
If a value less than 1 or a value greater than the number of records in the
subfile is contained in this field on an output operation to the subfile-control
record format, an error is returned to your program.
This optional keyword
is valid only for the subfile-control record format.
You cannot specify
both SFLRCDNBR and SFLROLVAL for the same field.
If the subfile record
format contains field selection, this keyword is not allowed.
Option
indicators are not valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the SFLRCDNBR keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R SFLR SFL
A*
A* (at least one displayable field)
A*
00040A R SFLCTLR SFLCTL(SFLR)
00050A SFLPAG(17)
00060A SFLSIZ(17)
00070A SFLDSP SFLDSPCTL
00080A DSPREC 4S 0B 4 12SFLRCDNBR(CURSOR)
AIn this example, either the program or the workstation
user can set the value of the field before displaying the subfile.