Operation Extender

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Calculation Specifications > Traditional Syntax > Positions 26-35 (Operation and Extender) > Positions 26-35 (Operation and Extender)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > Calculation Specifications > Traditional Syntax > Positions 26-35 (Operation and Extender)

Operation Extender

Entry
Explanation

Blank

No operation extension supplied

A

Used on the DUMP operation to indicate that the operation is always
performed regardless of the DEBUG option set on the H specification.

Ascending sort

H

Half adjust (round) result of numeric operation

N

Record is read but not locked

Set pointer to *NULL after successful DEALLOC

P

Pad the result field with blanks

D

Pass operational descriptors on bound call

Date field

Descending sort

T

Time field

Z

Timestamp field

M

Default precision rules

R

"Result Decimal Position" precision rules

E

Error handling

C

Current procedure only

The operation extenders provide additional attributes to the operations
that they accompany. Operation extenders are specified in positions 26-35
of calculation specifications. They must begin to the right of the operation
code and be contained within parentheses; blanks can be used for readability.
For example, the following are all valid entries: MULT(H), MULT (H), MULT
( H ).

More than one operation extender can be specified. For example, the CALLP
operation can specify both error handling and the default precision rules
with CALLP(EM).

An H indicates whether the contents of the result field are to be half
adjusted (rounded). Resulting indicators are set according to the value of
the result field after half-adjusting has been done.

An N in a READ, READE, READP, READPE, or CHAIN operation on an update disk
file indicates that a record is to be read, but not locked. If no value is
specified, the default action of locking occurs.

An N in a DEALLOC operation indicates that the result field pointer is
to be set to *NULL after a successful deallocation.

A P indicates that, the result field is padded after executing the instruction
if the result field is longer than the result of the operation.

A D when specified on the CALLB operation code indicates that operational
descriptors are included.

For a SORTA operation, the A extender indicates that an ascending sort is performed,
and a D extender indicates that a descending sort is performed.

The D, T, and Z extenders can be used with the TEST operation code to indicate
a date, time, or timestamp field.

M and R are specified for the precision of single free-form expressions.
For more information, see Precision Rules for Numeric Operations.

An M indicates that the default precision rules are used.

An R indicates that the precision of a decimal intermediate will be computed
such that the number of decimal places will never be reduced smaller than
the number of decimal positions of the result of the assignment.

An E indicates that operation-related errors will be checked with built-in
function %ERROR.

A C® extender indicates that an ON-EXCP operation handles exceptions sent directly to the current procedure only.

Parent topic: Positions 26-35 (Operation and Extender)