COMMENT

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

COMMENT
The COMMENT statement adds or replaces comments in the
catalog descriptions of various database objects.
InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared.
AuthorizationTo comment on a
table, view, alias, column, type, package, sequence, variable, or
XSR object, the privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement
must include at least one of the following:
For the table, view, alias, type, package, sequence,
variable, or XSR object in the statement, The ALTER privilege on the table, view, alias, type,
package, sequence, variable, or XSR object, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library that contains
the table, view, alias, index, type, package, sequence, variable,
or XSR object

Administrative authority

To comment on a constraint or trigger, the privileges held
by the authorization ID of the statement must include at least one
of the following:
For the subject table of the constraint or trigger in the statement:
The ALTER privilege on the subject table, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library that contains the
subject table

Database administrator authority

To comment on an index, the privileges held by the authorization
ID of the statement must include at least one of the following:
For the index identified in the statement, The system authority *OBJALTER on the index, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the index.

Administrative authority

To comment on a function, the privileges held by the authorization
ID of the statement must include at least one of the following:
For the SYSFUNCS and SYSROUTINES catalog view and table:The UPDATE privilege on SYSROUTINES,
The system authority *OBJOPR on SYSFUNCS, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on library QSYS2

Administrative authority

To comment on a procedure, the privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
For the SYSPROCS and SYSROUTINES catalog view and table:The UPDATE privilege on SYSROUTINES,
The system authority *OBJOPR on SYSPROCS, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on library QSYS2

Administrative authority

To comment on a parameter, the privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
For the SYSPARMS catalog table: The UPDATE privilege on the table, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on library QSYS2

Administrative authority

To comment on a mask or permission:The authorization ID of the statement must be authorized to the
Database Security Administrator function of IBM® i. See Administrative authority.

To comment on a sequence, the privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must also include at least one of
the following:
*USE authority to the Change Data Area (CHGDTAARA), CL command
Administrative authority

To comment on a variable, the privileges held by
the authorization ID of the statement must also include at least one
of the following:
For the SYSVARIABLES catalog table:The UPDATE privilege on SYSVARIABLES, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on library QSYS2

Administrative authority

To comment on an XSR object, the privileges held
by the authorization ID of the statement must also include at least
one of the following:
For the XSROBJECTS catalog table:The UPDATE privilege on XSROBJECTS, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on library QSYS2

Administrative authority

For information about the system authorities corresponding
to SQL privileges, see Corresponding
System Authorities When Checking Privileges to a Table or View, Corresponding System
Authorities When Checking Privileges to a User-defined Type, Corresponding System
Authorities When Checking Privileges to a Sequence, Corresponding System
Authorities When Checking Privileges to a Variable , Corresponding System Authorities
When Checking Privileges to a Package, and Corresponding System
Authorities When Checking Privileges to an XSR object.
SyntaxCOMMENTONALIASalias-nameCOLUMNtable-name.column-nameview-name.column-nameCONSTRAINTconstraint-nameFUNCTIONROUTINEfunction-name(,parameter-type)SPECIFICFUNCTIONROUTINEspecific-nameINDEXindex-nameMASKmask-namePACKAGEpackage-nameVERSIONversion-idPARAMETERroutine-name.parameter-nameSPECIFICFUNCTIONPROCEDUREROUTINEspecific-name.parameter-namePERMISSIONpermission-namePROCEDUREROUTINEprocedure-name(,parameter-type)SPECIFICPROCEDUREROUTINEspecific-nameSEQUENCEsequence-nameTABLEtable-nameview-nameTRIGGERtrigger-nameTYPEdistinct-type-namearray-type-nameVARIABLEvariable-nameXSROBJECTxsrobject-nameISstring-constantmultiple-column-listmultiple-parameter-list
multiple-column-listCOLUMNtable-nameview-name(,column-nameISstring-constant)multiple-parameter-listPARAMETERSPECIFICFUNCTIONPROCEDUREROUTINEspecific-nameROUTINEFUNCTIONPROCEDUREroutine-name(,parameter-type)(,parameter-nameISstring-constant)parameter-typedata-typeAS
LOCATORdata-typebuilt-in-typedistinct-type-namearray-type-name
built-in-typeSMALLINTINTEGERINTBIGINTDECIMALDECNUMERICNUM(5,0)(integer,0, integer)FLOAT(52)(integer)REALDOUBLEPRECISIONDECFLOAT(34)(16)CHARACTERCHAR(1)(integer)CHARACTERCHARVARYINGVARCHAR(integer)FOR BIT DATAFOR SBCS DATAFOR MIXED DATAccsid-clauseCHARACTERCHARLARGE OBJECTCLOB(1M)(integerKMG)FOR SBCS DATAFOR MIXED DATAccsid-clauseGRAPHIC(1)(integer)GRAPHIC VARYINGVARGRAPHIC(integer)DBCLOB(1M)(integerKMG)ccsid-clauseNATIONAL CHARACTERNATIONAL CHARNCHAR(1)(integer)NATIONAL CHARACTERNATIONAL CHARNCHARVARYINGNVARCHAR(integer)NATIONAL CHARACTERNCHARLARGE OBJECTNCLOB(1M)(integerKMG)BINARY(1)(integer)BINARY VARYINGVARBINARY(integer)BLOBBINARY LARGE OBJECT(1M)(integerKMG)DATETIME(0)TIMESTAMP(6)(integer)DATALINK(200)(integer)ccsid-clauseROWIDXMLccsid-clauseCCSIDinteger
DescriptionALIAS alias-name
Identifies
the alias to which the comment applies. The alias-name must
identify an alias that exists at the current server.
COLUMN
Specifies
that a comment will be added to or replaced for a column. table-name.column-name or view-name.column-name
Identifies the column to which the comment applies. The table-name or view-name must
identify a table or view that exists at the current server, but must
not identify a declared temporary table. The column-name must
identify a column of that table or view.

CONSTRAINT
Specifies
that a comment will be added to or replaced for a constraint. constraint-name
Identifies the constraint to which the comment applies. The constraint-name must
identify a constraint that exists at the current server.

FUNCTION or SPECIFIC FUNCTION
Identifies
the function on which the comment applies. The function must exist
at the current server and it must be a user-defined function. The
function can be identified by its name, function signature, or specific
name. FUNCTION function-name
Identifies the function by its name. The function-name must
identify exactly one function. The function may have any number of
parameters defined for it. If there is more than one function of the
specified name in the specified or implicit schema, an error is returned.
FUNCTION function-name (parameter-type, ...)
Identifies the function by its function signature, which uniquely
identifies the function. The function-name (parameter-type, ...) must
identify a function with the specified function signature. The specified
parameters must match the data types in the corresponding position
that were specified when the function was created. The number of data
types, and the logical concatenation of the data types is used to
identify the specific function instance on which to comment. Synonyms
for data types are considered a match. Parameters
that have defaults must be included in this signature.If function-name
() is specified, the function identified must have zero
parameters.
function-name
Identifies the name of the function.
(parameter-type, ...)
Identifies the parameters of the function. If an unqualified
distinct type name is specified, the database manager searches the
SQL path to resolve the schema name for the distinct type.
For
data types that have a length, precision, or scale attribute, use
one of the following:
Empty parentheses indicate that the database manager ignores the
attribute when determining whether the data types match. For example,
DEC() will be considered a match for a parameter of a function defined
with a data type of DEC(7,2). However, FLOAT cannot be specified with
empty parenthesis because its parameter value indicates a specific
data type (REAL or DOUBLE).
If a specific value for a length, precision, or scale attribute
is specified, the value must exactly match the value that was specified
(implicitly or explicitly) in the CREATE FUNCTION statement. If the
data type is FLOAT, the precision does not have to exactly match the
value that was specified because matching is based on the data type
(REAL or DOUBLE).
If length, precision, or scale is not explicitly specified, and
empty parentheses are not specified, the default attributes of the
data type are implied. The implicit length must exactly match the
value that was specified (implicitly or explicitly) in the CREATE
FUNCTION statement.

Specifying the FOR DATA clause or CCSID clause is optional.
Omission of either clause indicates that the database manager ignores
the attribute when determining whether the data types match. If either
clause is specified, it must match the value that was implicitly or
explicitly specified in the CREATE FUNCTION statement.

AS LOCATOR
Specifies that the function is defined to receive a
locator for this parameter. If AS LOCATOR is specified, the data type
must be a LOB or XML or a distinct type based on a LOB or XML. If
AS LOCATOR is specified, FOR SBCS DATA or FOR MIXED DATA must not
be specified.

SPECIFIC FUNCTION specific-name
Identifies
the function by its specific name. The specific-name must identify
a specific function that exists at the current server.

INDEX index-name
Identifies
the index to which the comment applies. The index-name must
identify an index that exists at the current server.
MASK mask-name
Identifies
the mask to which the comment applies. The mask-name must identify
a mask that exists at the current server.
PACKAGE package-name
Identifies the package to which the comment applies. The package-name must
identify a package that exists at the current server. 1 VERSION version-id
version-id is the version identifier
that was assigned to the package when it was created. If version-id is
not specified, a null string is used as the version identifier.

PARAMETER
Specifies
that a comment will be added to or replaced for a parameter. routine-name.parameter-name
Identifies the parameter to which the comment applies. The parameter
could be for a procedure or a function. The routine-name must
identify a procedure or function that exists at the current server,
and the parameter-name must identify a parameter
of that procedure or function.
specific-name.parameter-name
Identifies the parameter to which the comment applies. The parameter
could be for a procedure or a function. The specific-name must
identify a procedure or function that exists at the current server,
and the parameter-name must identify a parameter
of that procedure or function.

PERMISSION permission-name
Identifies
the permission to which the comment applies. The permission-name must
identify a permission that exists at the current server.
PROCEDURE or SPECIFIC PROCEDURE
Identifies the procedure to which the comment applies. The procedure-name must
identify a procedure that exists at the current server. PROCEDURE procedure-name
Identifies the procedure by its name. The procedure-name must
identify exactly one procedure. The procedure may have any number
of parameters defined for it. If there is more than one procedure
of the specified name in the specified or implicit schema, an error
is returned.
PROCEDURE procedure-name (parameter-type, ...)
Identifies the procedure by its procedure signature, which uniquely
identifies the procedure. The procedure-name (parameter-type,
...) must identify a procedure with the specified procedure signature.
The specified parameters must match the data types in the corresponding
position that were specified when the procedure was created. The number
of data types, and the logical concatenation of the data types is
used to identify the specific procedure instance which is to be commented
on. Synonyms for data types are considered a match. Parameters
that have defaults must be included in this signature.If procedure-name
() is specified, the procedure identified must have
zero parameters.
procedure-name
Identifies the name of the procedure.
(parameter-type, ...)
Identifies the parameters of the procedure. If
an unqualified distinct type or array type name is specified, the
database manager searches the SQL path to resolve the schema name
for the distinct type or array type.
For data types that have
a length, precision, or scale attribute, use one of the following:
Empty parentheses indicate that the database manager ignores the
attribute when determining whether the data types match. For example,
DEC() will be considered a match for a parameter of a procedure defined
with a data type of DEC(7,2). However, FLOAT cannot be specified with
empty parenthesis because its parameter value indicates a specific
data type (REAL or DOUBLE).
If a specific value for a length, precision, or scale attribute
is specified, the value must exactly match the value that was specified
(implicitly or explicitly) in the CREATE PROCEDURE statement. If the
data type is FLOAT, the precision does not have to exactly match the
value that was specified because matching is based on the data type
(REAL or DOUBLE).
If length, precision, or scale is not explicitly specified, and
empty parentheses are not specified, the default attributes of the
data type are implied. The implicit length must exactly match the
value that was specified (implicitly or explicitly) in the CREATE
PROCEDURE statement.

Specifying the FOR DATA clause or CCSID clause is optional.
Omission of either clause indicates that the database manager ignores
the attribute when determining whether the data types match. If either
clause is specified, it must match the value that was implicitly or
explicitly specified in the CREATE PROCEDURE statement.

AS LOCATOR
Specifies that the procedure is defined to receive
a locator for this parameter. If AS LOCATOR is specified, the data
type must be a LOB or XML or a distinct type based on a LOB or XML.
If AS LOCATOR is specified, FOR SBCS DATA or FOR MIXED DATA must not
be specified.

SPECIFIC PROCEDURE specific-name
Identifies
the procedure by its specific name. The specific-name must
identify a specific procedure that exists at the current server.

SEQUENCE sequence-name
Identifies
the sequence to which the comment applies. The sequence-name must
identify a sequence that exists at the current server.
TABLE table-name or view-name
Identifies
the table or view to which the comment applies. The table-name or view-name must
identify a table or view that exists at the current server, but must
not identify a declared temporary table.
TRIGGER trigger-name
Identifies
the trigger to which the comment applies. The trigger-name must
identify a trigger that exists at the current server.
TYPE distinct-type-name or array-type-name
Identifies
the distinct type or array type to which the comment applies. The distinct-type-name or array-type-name must
identify a type that exists at the current server.
VARIABLE variable-name
Identifies
the variable to which the comment applies. The variable-name must
identify a variable that exists at the current server.
XSROBJECT xsrobject-name
Identifies
the XSR object to which the comment applies. The xsrobject-name must
identify an XSR object that exists at the current server.
IS
Introduces
the comment that to be added or replaced. string-constant
Can be any character-string constant of up to 2000 characters
(500 for a sequence).

multiple-column-listTo comment on more
than one column in a table or view, specify the table or view name
and then, in parenthesis, a list of the form:
(column-name IS string-constant,
column-name IS string-constant, ... )
The
column name must not be qualified, each name must identify a column
of the specified table or view, and that table or view must exist
at the current server.
multiple-parameter-listTo comment on more
than one parameter in a procedure or function, specify the procedure
name, function name, or specific name, and then, in parenthesis, a
list of the form:
(parameter-name IS string-constant,
parameter-name IS string-constant, ... )
The
parameter name must not be qualified, each name must identify a parameter
of the specified procedure or function, and that procedure or function
must exist at the current server.
NotesSyntax
alternatives: The following keywords are synonyms supported for
compatibility to prior releases. These keywords are non-standard and
should not be used:
The keyword PROGRAM can be used as a synonym for PACKAGE.
The keywords DATA TYPE or DISTINCT TYPE can be used as a synonym
for TYPE.

ExamplesExample 1: Insert a comment
for the EMPLOYEE table.
COMMENT ON TABLE EMPLOYEE
IS 'Reflects first quarter 2000 reorganization'
Example
2: Insert a comment for the EMP_VIEW1 view.
COMMENT ON TABLE EMP_VIEW1
IS 'View of the EMPLOYEE table without salary information'
Example
3: Insert a comment for the EDLEVEL column of the EMPLOYEE table.
COMMENT ON COLUMN EMPLOYEE.EDLEVEL
IS 'Highest grade level passed in school'
Example
4: Enter comments on two columns in the DEPARTMENT table.
COMMENT ON DEPARTMENT
(MGRNO IS 'EMPLOYEE NUMBER OF DEPARTMENT MANAGER',
ADMRDEPT IS 'DEPARTMENT NUMBER OF ADMINISTERING DEPARTMENT')
Example
5: Insert a comment for the PAYROLL package.
COMMENT ON PACKAGE PAYROLL
IS 'This package is used for distributed payroll processing.'

Parent topic: Statements

1 If the identified
package has a version-id, the comment is
limited to 176 bytes.