REVOKE (function or procedure privileges)

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

REVOKE (function or procedure privileges)
This form of the REVOKE statement removes the privileges
on a function or procedure.
InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared.
AuthorizationThe privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
For each function or procedure identified in the statement: Every privilege specified in the statement
The system authority of *OBJMGT on the function or procedure
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library (or directory if
this is a Java™ routine) containing
the function or procedure

Database administrator authority
Security administrator authority

SyntaxREVOKEALLPRIVILEGES,ALTEREXECUTEON,FUNCTIONROUTINE,function-name(,parameter-type)SPECIFICFUNCTIONROUTINE,specific-namePROCEDUREROUTINE,procedure-name(,parameter-type)SPECIFICPROCEDUREROUTINE,specific-nameFROM,USERGROUPauthorization-namePUBLIC
parameter-typedata-typeAS
LOCATOR
data-typebuilt-in-typedistinct-type-namearray-type-name
built-in-typeSMALLINTINTEGERINTBIGINTDECIMALDECNUMERICNUM(5,0)(integer,0, integer)FLOAT(52)(integer)REALDOUBLEPRECISIONDECFLOAT(34)(16)CHARACTERCHAR(1)(integer)CHARACTERCHARVARYINGVARCHAR(integer)FOR BIT DATAFOR SBCS DATAFOR MIXED DATAccsid-clauseCHARACTERCHARLARGE OBJECTCLOB(1M)(integerKMG)FOR SBCS DATAFOR MIXED DATAccsid-clauseGRAPHIC(1)(integer)GRAPHIC VARYINGVARGRAPHIC(integer)DBCLOB(1M)(integerKMG)ccsid-clauseNATIONAL CHARACTERNATIONAL CHARNCHAR(1)(integer)NATIONAL CHARACTERNATIONAL CHARNCHARVARYINGNVARCHAR(integer)NATIONAL CHARACTERNCHARLARGE OBJECTNCLOB(1M)(integerKMG)BINARY(1)(integer)BINARY VARYINGVARBINARY(integer)BLOBBINARY LARGE OBJECT(1M)(integerKMG)DATETIME(0)TIMESTAMP(6)(integer)DATALINK(200)(integer)ccsid-clauseROWIDXMLccsid-clauseCCSIDinteger
DescriptionALL or ALL PRIVILEGES
Revokes
one or more function or procedure privileges from each authorization-name.
The privileges revoked are those privileges on the identified functions
or procedures that were granted to the authorization-names.
Note that revoking ALL PRIVILEGES on a function or procedure is not
the same as revoking the system authority of *ALL. If you do not
use ALL, you must use one or more of the keywords listed below. Each
keyword revokes the privilege described.

ALTER
Revokes the privilege
to use the ALTER FUNCTION, ALTER PROCEDURE, or COMMENT statement.
EXECUTE
Revokes the privilege
to execute a function or procedure.
FUNCTION or SPECIFIC FUNCTION
Identifies the function
from which the privilege is revoked. The function must exist at the
current server and it must be a user-defined function, but not
a function that was implicitly generated with the creation of a distinct
type. The function can be identified by its name, function signature,
or specific name. FUNCTION function-name
Identifies the function by its name. The function-name must
identify exactly one function. The function may have any number of
parameters defined for it. If there is more than one function of the
specified name in the specified or implicit schema, an error is returned.
FUNCTION function-name (parameter-type, ...)
Identifies the function by its function signature, which uniquely
identifies the function. The function-name (parameter-type, ...) must
identify a function with the specified function signature. The specified
parameters must match the data types in the corresponding position
that were specified when the function was created. The number of data
types, and the logical concatenation of the data types is used to
identify the specific function instance on which the privilege is
to be revoked. Synonyms for data types are considered a match. Parameters that have defaults must be included in this
signature.If function-name () is
specified, the function identified must have zero parameters.
function-name
Identifies the name of the function.
(parameter-type, ...)
Identifies the parameters of the function. If an unqualified
distinct type name is specified, the database manager searches the
SQL path to resolve the schema name for the distinct type.
For
data types that have a length, precision, or scale attribute, use
one of the following:
Empty parentheses indicate that the database manager ignores the
attribute when determining whether the data types match. For example,
DEC() will be considered a match for a parameter of a function defined
with a data type of DEC(7,2). However, FLOAT cannot be specified with
empty parenthesis because its parameter value indicates a specific
data type (REAL or DOUBLE).
If a specific value for a length, precision, or scale attribute
is specified, the value must exactly match the value that was specified
(implicitly or explicitly) in the CREATE FUNCTION statement. If the
data type is FLOAT, the precision does not have to exactly match the
value that was specified because matching is based on the data type
(REAL or DOUBLE).
If length, precision, or scale is not explicitly specified, and
empty parentheses are not specified, the default attributes of the
data type are implied. The implicit length must exactly match the
value that was specified (implicitly or explicitly) in the CREATE
FUNCTION statement.

Specifying the FOR DATA clause or CCSID clause is optional.
Omission of either clause indicates that the database manager ignores
the attribute when determining whether the data types match. If either
clause is specified, it must match the value that was implicitly or
explicitly specified in the CREATE FUNCTION statement.

AS LOCATOR
Specifies that the function is defined to receive a
locator for this parameter. If AS LOCATOR is specified, the data type
must be a LOB or XML or a distinct type based on a LOB or XML.

SPECIFIC FUNCTION specific-name
Identifies
the function by its specific name. The specific-name must identify
a specific function that exists at the current server.

PROCEDURE or SPECIFIC PROCEDURE
Identifies the procedure from which the privilege is revoked.
The procedure-name must identify a procedure that exists at
the current server. PROCEDURE procedure-name
Identifies the procedure by its name. The procedure-name must
identify exactly one procedure. The procedure may have any number
of parameters defined for it. If there is more than one procedure
of the specified name in the specified or implicit schema, an error
is returned.
PROCEDURE procedure-name (parameter-type, ...)
Identifies the procedure by its procedure signature, which uniquely
identifies the procedure. The procedure-name (parameter-type,
...) must identify a procedure with the specified procedure signature.
The specified parameters must match the data types in the corresponding
position that were specified when the procedure was created. The number
of data types, and the logical concatenation of the data types is
used to identify the specific procedure instance which is to be revoked.
Synonyms for data types are considered a match. Parameters
that have defaults must be included in this signature.If procedure-name
() is specified, the procedure identified must have
zero parameters.
procedure-name
Identifies the name of the procedure.
(parameter-type, ...)
Identifies the parameters of the procedure. If
an unqualified distinct type or array type name is specified, the
database manager searches the SQL path to resolve the schema name
for the distinct type or array type.
For data types that have
a length, precision, or scale attribute, use one of the following:
Empty parentheses indicate that the database manager ignores the
attribute when determining whether the data types match. For example,
DEC() will be considered a match for a parameter of a procedure defined
with a data type of DEC(7,2). However, FLOAT cannot be specified with
empty parenthesis because its parameter value indicates a specific
data type (REAL or DOUBLE).
If a specific value for a length, precision, or scale attribute
is specified, the value must exactly match the value that was specified
(implicitly or explicitly) in the CREATE PROCEDURE statement. If the
data type is FLOAT, the precision does not have to exactly match the
value that was specified because matching is based on the data type
(REAL or DOUBLE).
If length, precision, or scale is not explicitly specified, and
empty parentheses are not specified, the default attributes of the
data type are implied. The implicit length must exactly match the
value that was specified (implicitly or explicitly) in the CREATE
PROCEDURE statement.

Specifying the FOR DATA clause or CCSID clause is optional.
Omission of either clause indicates that the database manager ignores
the attribute when determining whether the data types match. If either
clause is specified, it must match the value that was implicitly or
explicitly specified in the CREATE PROCEDURE statement.

AS LOCATOR
Specifies that the procedure is defined to receive
a locator for this parameter. If AS LOCATOR is specified, the data
type must be a LOB or XML or a distinct type based on a LOB or XML.

SPECIFIC PROCEDURE specific-name
Identifies
the procedure by its specific name. The specific-name must
identify a specific procedure that exists at the current server.

FROM
Identifies from whom
the privileges are revoked. USER
Specifies that the authorization-name identifies a user
profile. If USER is specified, authorization-name cannot be
a group profile.
GROUP
Specifies that the authorization-name identifies a group
profile. If GROUP is specified, authorization-name cannot be
a user profile.
authorization-name,…
Lists one or
more authorization IDs. Do not specify the same authorization-name more
than once.
PUBLIC
Revokes a grant of the
privilege to PUBLIC. For more information, see Authorization, privileges and object ownership.

NotesMultiple
grants: If you revoke a privilege on a function or procedure,
it nullifies any grant of the privilege on that function or procedure,
regardless of who granted it.
Revoking WITH GRANT OPTION: The only way to revoke
the WITH GRANT OPTION is to revoke ALL.
Privilege warning: Revoking a specific privilege
from a user does not necessarily prevent that user from performing
an action that requires that privilege. For example, the user may
still have the privilege through PUBLIC privileges or database administrator authority.
Corresponding system authorities: When a function
or procedure privilege is revoked, the corresponding system authorities
are revoked. For information about the system authorities that correspond
to SQL privileges see GRANT (function or procedure privileges).
Privileges revoked from either an SQL or external function
or procedure are revoked from its associated program (*PGM) or service
program (*SRVPGM) object. Privileges revoked from a Java external function or procedure are revoked
from the associated class file or jar file. If the associated program,
service program, class file, or jar file is not found when the revoke
is executed, an error is returned.
Syntax alternatives: The following keywords are
synonyms supported for compatibility to prior releases. These keywords
are non-standard and should not be used:
The keyword RUN can be used as a synonym for EXECUTE.

ExampleRevoke the EXECUTE privilege on
procedure PROCA from PUBLIC.
REVOKE EXECUTE
ON PROCEDURE PROCA
FROM PUBLIC

Parent topic: Statements