LPAD

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

LPAD
The LPAD function returns a string composed of expression that
is padded on the left.
LPAD(expression,length,pad)
The LPAD function treats leading or trailing blanks in expression as
significant. Padding will only occur if the actual length of expression is
less than length, and pad is not an empty string.
expression
An expression that specifies the string from which the result
is derived. Expression must be a built-in
string, numeric, or datetime data type. A numeric or datetime argument
is cast to VARCHAR with a CCSID that is the default SBCS CCSID at
the current server before evaluating the function. For more information
about converting numeric or datetime to a varying character string,
see VARCHAR.

length
An expression that specifies the length of the result. The expression
must return a value that is a built-in numeric, character-string,
or graphic-string data type. If the data type of the expression is
not INTEGER, it is implicitly cast to INTEGER before evaluating the
function. The value must be zero or a positive integer that is less
than or equal to n, where n is the maximum length of
the result data type. See SQL limits for
more information.If expression is a graphic
string, length indicates the number of DBCS or Unicode graphic
characters. If expression is a character string, length indicates
the number of characters where a character may consist of one or more
bytes. If expression is a binary string, length indicates
the number of bytes.

pad
An expression that specifies the string with which to pad. The
expression must return a value that is a built-in string, numeric,
or datetime data type. If the value is a numeric or datetime data
type, it is implicitly cast to VARCHAR with a CCSID that is the default
SBCS CCSID at the current server before evaluating the function.
If pad is not specified, the pad character
is set as follows:For character and graphic strings, a single-byte, double-byte,
UTF-16, or UTF-8 blank character based on the data type and CCSID
of expression.1
For binary strings, hexadecimal zeros.

The value for expression and the value for pad must
have compatible data types. If the CCSID of pad is different
than the CCSID of expression, the pad value is converted
to the CCSID of expression. For more information about data
type compatibility, see Assignments and comparisons.
The
data type of the result depends on the data type of expression:
Data type of expression
Data Type of the
Result for LPAD

CHAR or VARCHAR or numeric or datetime
VARCHAR

CLOB
CLOB

GRAPHIC or VARGRAPHIC
VARGRAPHIC

DBCLOB
DBCLOB

BINARY or VARBINARY
VARBINARY

BLOB
BLOB

The length attribute of the result depends on length.
If length is explicitly specified by an integer constant that
is greater than zero, the length attribute of the result is length.
If length is explicitly specified by an integer constant that
is zero, the length attribute of the result is 1. If length is
specified as an expression, the length attribute of the result is
the minimum of m+100 and the maximum length of the result data
type, where m is the length attribute of expression.
See SQL limits for more information.
The actual length of the result is determined from length. If length is 0, the actual length is 0 and the result is
the empty result string.
If length is equal to the actual length of expression,
the actual length is the length of expression.
If length is less than the actual length of expression,
the result is truncated. The actual length is length unless
the result data type is varying-length mixed data or varying-length
Unicode. In this case, only complete characters will be truncated.
For Unicode data, the actual length may be length-1 to
prevent a double-byte character from being split.
For mixed data the actual length may be as little as length-3
to account for truncation of a double byte character and possibly
a “shift-in” character (X'0F') and a “shift-out” character (X'0E').

If length is greater than the actual length of expression,
the actual length is length unless the result data type is
varying-length mixed data or varying-length Unicode and pad contains
double-byte characters. In this case, only complete characters will
be padded. For Unicode data, the actual length may be length-1 to
prevent a double-byte character from being split.
For mixed data, the actual length may be may be as little as length-3
to account for truncation of a double byte character and possibly
a “shift-in” character (X'0F') and a “shift-out” character (X'0E').
Also, this result will not have redundant shift codes “at the seam”.
Thus, if the pad is a string ending with a “shift-in” character (X'0F'),
and expression begins with a “shift-out” character (X'0E'), these
two bytes are eliminated from the result.

If any argument can be null, the result can be null; if
any argument is null, the result is the null value.
The CCSID of the result is the same as that of expression.
ExamplesExample 1: Assume that NAME is a VARCHAR(15) column that
contains the values "Chris", "Meg", and "Jeff". The following query
will completely pad out a value on the left with periods:SELECT LPAD(NAME,15,'.' ) AS NAME FROM T1;  
returns:NAME
---------------
..........Chris
............Meg
...........Jeff

Example 2: Assume that NAME is a VARCHAR(15) column that
contains the values "Chris", "Meg", and "Jeff". The following query
will only pad each value to a length of 5:SELECT LPAD(NAME,5,'.' ) AS NAME FROM T1;
returns:NAME
-----
Chris
..Meg
.Jeff

Example 3: Assume that NAME is a CHAR(15) column containing
the values "Chris", "Meg", and "Jeff". The LPAD function does not
pad because NAME is a fixed length character field and is blank padded
already. However, since the length of the result is 5, the columns
are truncated: SELECT LPAD(NAME,5,'.' ) AS NAME FROM T1;
returns:NAME
-----
Chris
Meg
Jeff

Example 4: Assume that NAME is a VARCHAR(15) column containing
the values "Chris", "Meg", and "Jeff". In some cases, a partial instance
of the pad specification is returned:SELECT LPAD(NAME,15,'123' ) AS NAME FROM T1;
returns:NAME
---------------
1231231231Chris
123123123123Meg
12312312312Jeff

Example 5: Assume that NAME is a VARCHAR(15) column containing
the values "Chris", "Meg", and "Jeff". Note that "Chris" is truncated,
"Meg" is padded, and "Jeff" is unchanged:SELECT LPAD(NAME,4,'.' ) AS NAME FROM T1;
returns:NAME
----
Chri
.Meg
Jeff

Parent topic: Scalar functions

1 UTF-16 or UCS-2 defines a blank character at code
point X'0020' and X'3000'. The database manager pads with the blank
at code point X'0020'. The database manager pads UTF-8 with a blank
at code point X'20'