Numeric only character (M)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > Define a display file for DDS > Positional entries for display files (positions 1 through 44) > Data type/keyboard shift for display files (position 35) > Valid entries for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > Define a display file for DDS > Positional entries for display files (positions 1 through 44) > Data type/keyboard shift for display files (position 35) > Valid entries for display files

Numeric only character (M)

The M keyboard shift defines a character field that allows you
to type only the digits 0 through 9, plus (+), minus (-), comma (,), period
(.), and blank into the field.

The Field Exit, Field+ Exit, Field- Exit, and Dup keys are allowed. The
Field+ Exit is processed as an unsigned Field Exit. The Field- Exit is processed
as follows:
If you do not specify CHECK(RZ) or CHECK(RB), the farthest right position
is changed to a brace.

If you specify CHECK(RZ) or CHECK(RB), the last character you type into
the field must be a digit (or a keyboard error is issued). The farthest right
digit, n, is converted from hex Fn (positive) to hex Dn (negative).

The display length for an M field is the length coded in positions 30 through
34. You must include any additional positions needed for a sign character
or decimal point in the field length.

The field displays as a blank-filled field when you do not
specify any keyword. If you specify a CHECK(RZ) keyword, the field displays
as right-aligned zero. If you specify a CHECK(RB) keyword, the field displays
as right-aligned blank filled.

When the IBM® i operating
system passes the contents of the field to a program, the following considerations
apply:
The program always sees a character field.

The field length in the input buffer is the program length.

The field contents are passed directly to the program. The IBM i operating
system neither converts embedded blanks to zeros nor removes nonnumeric characters,
such as sign characters and decimal points.

In a database file, you can specify the M keyboard shift on the REFSHIFT
keyword if the field data type is character (A).