DataLink values

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Data types > Data types

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Data types

DataLink values
A DataLink value is an encapsulated value that contains
a logical reference from the database to a file stored outside the
database.
The attributes of this encapsulated value are as follows:
link type
The currently supported type of link is a URL (Uniform Resource
Locator).
scheme
For URLs, this is a value such as HTTP or FILE. The value, no
matter what case it is entered in, is stored in the database in upper
case.
file server name
The complete address of the file server. The value, no matter
what case it is entered in, is stored in the database in upper case.
file path
The identity of the file within the server. The value is case
sensitive and therefore it is not converted to upper case when stored
in the database.
access control token
When appropriate, the access token is embedded within the file
path. It is generated dynamically and is not a permanent part of
the DataLink value that is stored in the database.
comment
Up to 254 bytes of descriptive information. This is intended for
application specific uses such as further or alternative identification
of the location of the data.

The characters used in a DataLink value are limited to
the set defined for a URL. These characters include the uppercase
(A through Z) and lower case (a through z) letters, the digits (0
through 9) and a subset of special characters ($, -, _, @, ., &,
+, !, *, ", ', (, ), =, ;, /, #, ?, :, space, and comma).
The first four attributes are collectively known as the
linkage attributes. It is possible for a DataLink value to have only
a comment attribute and no linkage attributes. Such a value may even
be stored in a column but, of course, no file will be linked to such
a column.
It is important to distinguish between these DataLink
references to files and the LOB file reference variables described
in References to LOB or XML file reference variables. The similarity is that
they both contain a representation of a file. However:
DataLinks are retained in the database and both the links and
the data in the linked files can be considered as a natural extension
of data in the database.
File reference variables exist temporarily and they can be considered
as an alternative to a host program buffer.

Built-in scalar functions are provided to build a DataLink
value (DLVALUE) and to extract the encapsulated values from a DataLink
value (DLCOMMENT, DLLINKTYPE, DLURLCOMPLETE, DLURLPATH, DLURLPATHONLY,
DLURLSCHEME, DLURLSERVER).

Parent topic: Data types