EXTRACT

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

EXTRACT
The EXTRACT function returns a specified portion of a datetime
value.
Extract Date Values
EXTRACT(YEARMONTHDAYFROMdate-expressiontimestamp-expression)
Extract Time Values
EXTRACT(HOURMINUTESECONDFROMdate-expressiontime-expressiontimestamp-expression)
Extract Date ValuesYEAR
Specifies that the year portion of the date or timestamp expression
is returned. The result is identical to the YEAR scalar function.
For more information, see YEAR.
MONTH
Specifies that the month portion of the date or timestamp expression
is returned. The result is identical to the MONTH scalar function.
For more information, see MONTH.
DAY
Specifies that the day portion of the date or timestamp expression
is returned. The result is identical to the DAY scalar function. For
more information, see DAY.
date-expression
An expression that returns the value of either a built-in date,
built-in character string, or built-in graphic string data
type. If date-expression is a character
or graphic string, its value must be a valid character-string or graphic-string
representation of a date. For the valid formats of string representations
of dates, see String representations of datetime values.

timestamp-expression
An expression that returns the value of either a built-in timestamp,
built-in character string, or built-in graphic string data
type. If timestamp-expression is a character
or graphic string, its value must be a valid character-string or graphic-string
representation of a timestamp. For the valid formats of string representations
of timestamps, see String representations of datetime values.

Extract Time Values HOUR
Specifies that the hour portion of the time or timestamp expression
is returned. Returns 0 for a date expression. The
result is identical to the HOUR scalar function. For more information,
see HOUR.
MINUTE
Specifies that the minute portion of the time or timestamp expression
is returned. Returns 0 for a date expression. The
result is identical to the MINUTE scalar function. For more information,
see MINUTE.
SECOND
Specifies that the second portion of the time or timestamp
expression is returned. Returns 0 for a date expression. The
result is identical to: SECOND(expression, 6) when the data type of expression is a TIME
value or a string representation of a TIME or TIMESTAMP.
SECOND(expression, s) when the data type of expression
is a TIMESTAMP(s) value.

For more information, see SECOND.
date-expression
An expression that returns the value of either a built-in date.
built-in character string, or built-in graphic string data
type. If date-expression is a character
or graphic string, its value must be a valid character-string or graphic-string
representation of a date. If expression is a valid string representation of a date, it must be one of the IBM® SQL standard formats. For the valid formats of string representations of dates, see String representations of datetime values.

time-expression
An expression that returns the value of either a built-in time,
built-in character string, or built-in graphic string data
type. If time-expression is a character
or graphic string, its value must be a valid character-string or graphic-string
representation of a time. For the valid formats of string representations
of times, see String representations of datetime values.

timestamp-expression
An expression that returns the value of either a built-in timestamp,
built-in character string, or built-in graphic string data
type. If timestamp-expression is a character
or graphic string, its value must be a valid character-string or graphic-string
representation of a timestamp. For the valid formats of string representations
of timestamps, see String representations of datetime values.

The data type of the result of the function depends on
the part of the datetime value that is specified:
If YEAR, MONTH, DAY, HOUR, or MINUTE is specified, the data type
of the result is INTEGER.
If SECOND is specified with a TIMESTAMP(p)
value, the data type of the result is DECIMAL(2+p,p)
where p is the fractional seconds precision.
If SECOND is specified with a TIME value or a string
representation of a TIME or TIMESTAMP, the data type of the result
is DECIMAL(8,6).

If the argument can be null, the result can be null; if the
argument is null, the result is the null value.
ExamplesAssume the column PRSTDATE has an internal value equivalent to
1988-12-25.   SELECT EXTRACT( MONTH FROM PRSTDATE )
    FROM PROJECT
Results in the
value 12.

Parent topic: Scalar functions