Data type errors using the CALL command

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Controlling flow and communicating between programs and procedures > Passing parameters > Common errors when calling programs and procedures > Common errors when calling programs and procedures

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Controlling flow and communicating between programs and procedures > Passing parameters > Common errors when calling programs and procedures

Data type errors using the CALL command
When you use the Call Program (CALL) command,
data type errors might occur.
The total length of the command string includes the command name,
spaces, parameter names, parentheses, contents of variables and single quotation
marks used. For most commands, the command string initiates the command
processing program as expected. However, for some commands some variables
may not be passed as expected.
When the Call Program (CALL) command
is used with the CMD parameter on the Submit Job (SBMJOB) command,
unexpected results might occur. Syntactically, the CALL command appears the
same when used with the CMD parameter as it does when used as the compiler
directive for the CALL command. When used with the CMD parameter, the Call
Program (CALL) command is converted to a command string that is
run at a later time when the batch subsystem initiates it. When the Call
Program (CALL) command is used by itself, the CL compiler generates
code to perform the call.
Common problems with decimal constants and
character variables often occur. In the following cases, the command string
is not constructed as needed:
When decimal numbers are converted to decimal constants. When the
command string is run, the decimal constant is passed in a packed form with
a length of LEN(15 5). It is not passed in the form specified by the CL variable.

When a character variable is declared longer than 32 characters.

The contents of the character variable is passed as described previously,
typically as a quoted character constant with the trailing blanks removed.
As a result, the called program may not be passed enough data.
The following
methods can be used to correct errors in constructing command strings:
Create the Call Program (CALL) command string to be
submitted by concatenating the various portions of the command together into
one CL variable. Submit the command string using the request data (RQSDTA)
parameter of the Submit Job (SBMJOB) command.
For CL character variables larger than 32 characters where trailing blanks
are significant, create a variable that is one character larger than needed
and substring a non-blank character into the last position. This prevents
the significant blanks from being truncated. The called program should ignore
the extra character because it is beyond the length expected.
Create a command that will initiate the program to be called. Submit the
new command instead of using the Call Program (CALL) command.
The command definition ensures the parameters are passed to the command processing
program as expected.

Parent topic: Common errors when calling programs and procedures

Related concepts
Variables in CL commands

Related information
Call Program (CALL) command
Submit Job (SBMJOB) command
CL command finder