FONT (Font) keyword in printer files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

FONT (Font) keyword in printer files

You use this record-level or field-level
keyword to specify the font ID for printing named or constant fields
within a record.

The format of the keyword is:
FONT(font-identifier | &font-identifier-field
[(*POINTSIZE height-value | &height-value-field
width-value | &width-value-field)])The font-identifier
is a required parameter and must be the first parameter following
the keyword. Specify either a numeric font identifier or a graphic
font name, or *VECTOR.
You can specify the font-identifier as
a constant or program-to-system field as shown in the following examples:

font-identifier...

&field1...

When you specify the font-identifier as a program-to-system
field, the field must exist in the same record format as the FONT
keyword. It must be defined as length of 10, data type A (character),
and usage P (program-to-system).
For scalable printer-resident
fonts, you can use the optional point-size parameter to further define
a numeric font that specifies a point size. Specify the point-size
parameter as an expression of the following form:
(*POINTSIZE height-value width-value)The
height-value specifies the point size for the height of the font.
The width-value specifies the point size for the width of the font.
If the font is to be uniformly scaled (where the height and width
are the same), then you can specify only the height-value. You cannot
specify the width-value without the height-value. The valid values
for this parameter are 0.1 through 999.9.
You can specify the
point-size height and point-size width as constants, as program-to-system
fields, or as a combination of both, as shown in the following examples:

[(*POINTSIZE height-value &field1)]

[(*POINTSIZE &field2 width-value)]

When you specify the point-size height-value or width-value
as a program-to-system field, the fields must exist in the same record
format as the FONT keyword. They must be defined as length 4 with
1 decimal position, data type S, and usage P (program-to-system).
For
non-scalable printer-resident fonts, the point size parameter is ignored.
For
DEVTYPE(*IPDS), the width parameter of the point size is ignored.
A warning message is issued at creation time if you
specify the point-size parameter on the FONT keyword with a graphic
font name, or *VECTOR. In that case, the point-size parameter is ignored.
If
you do not specify this keyword, the font ID and point size are set
by the font parameter on the CRTPRTF, CHGPRTF, or OVRPRTF command.
If you specify this keyword at the record level, all fields in the
record format use the same font ID and point size except those for
which you specify the FONT keyword at the field level.
You
can specify graphic fonts (alphanumeric characters) or hardware fonts
(numeric font identifiers). For graphic fonts, use graphic symbol
sets (GSS) available with the IBM® i operating system, GDDM,
PGR, and BGU. Only vector symbols (where each character is built with
a set of straight or curved lines) are supported. However, most of
the vector symbol sets supplied by the operating system and GDDM are
supported. Image symbols are not supported. In searching for the graphic
symbol set, *LIBL is used for the qualified library name.
The
name of a graphic font can consist of up to 10 alphanumeric characters.
The
hardware font can consist of up to 10 digits and must be a registered
font number. See the IBM Infoprint Fonts: Font Summary book
for a listing of font IDs.
You can specify *VECTOR
on the FONT keyword to take advantage of vector fonts on the 4234 IPDS printer.
Vector fonts print expanded characters faster than they can be printed
using the PRTQLTY(*DRAFT) keyword. Use the CHRSIZ keyword to specify
expanded characters.
Note: When you specify FONT(*VECTOR) with
the CHRSIZ keyword, the 4234 printer uses a default code page.
Vector
fonts are valid only for the following characters:
A through Z

0 through 9

Special characters (. + $ * - / % and a blank)

If the data to be printed contains any characters other
than these, all characters are printed using a default font on the
printer.
FONT(*VECTOR) has no effect on characters that have
not been expanded. If FONT(*VECTOR) is specified on a record or field
for which CHRSIZ (1 1) applies or to which no CHRSIZ keyword applies,
a warning message is issued.
Note: If you use FONT(*VECTOR) on
a 4224 or 3812 printer, the printer uses a default font and code page.
The
font name or number and the point size values are not checked during
file creation. If the specified font-id and point size values are
not valid, a diagnostic is issued while the record prints and the
keyword are not used.
When FONT is specified at the field level,
overlapping fields are not diagnosed.
When you use a graphics font on the CRTPRTF, CHGPRTF,
or OVRPRTF command, the font ID has an implied page code associated
with it. To get the code you want, you must use the proper font ID;
the code page specified on the CHRID parameter is not used.
If
you specify OCR-A font with the CHRID keyword, the fonts require code
pages 892. If you specify OCR-B font with the CHRID keyword, the fonts
require code pages 893.
A warning message is issued
at creation time if a FONT DDS keyword is specified in a file created
with DEVTYPE(*IPDS) and FONT(*DEVD). For SCS printer files, the FONT
keyword is ignored when the record or field is printed. For IPDS printers,
the FONT keyword can be changed at the record or field level.
When
printing a file that uses the FONT keyword to an IPDS AFP(*YES)
printer that does not support registered fonts, a font substitution
is performed.
When you specify FONT(*CPI) with either the CRTPRTF,
CHGPRTF, or OVRPRTF command to a device that uses font support, the
host system selects a font with the pitch of the CPI for the current
printer file.
FONT(graphic-font-name) and CHRID cannot apply
to the same field. The CHRID keyword is ignored if:

You specify FONT(graphic-font-name) and CHRID on the same field.

You specify FONT(graphic-font-name) at the record level and a
field in the record specifies CHRID but not a numeric FONT.

You cannot specify FONT at the same level as the CDEFNT and
FNTCHRSET keywords.
You can specify this keyword only once for
each record and once per field.
This keyword is valid for data
types A, S, and F.
Option indicators are valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows how
to specify the FONT keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R RECORD1
00020A 02 03 FONT(222)
00030A FLD1 6A 16 01
00040A 01 FONT(ADMMVSS)
00050A FLD2 6S 20 01
00060A R RECORD2
00070A 04 FONT(16951 (*POINTSIZE 10))
00080A FLD3 6A 16 01
00090A 05 FONT(16951 (*POINTSIZE 12))
00100A FLD4 6S 20 01FONT(4919)
00110A
00120A FLD5 10A 30 01FONT(416 +
00130A 05 (*POINTSIZE 5.0 3.0))FLD1
uses the multinational vector symbol set (FONT(ADMMVSS)) if indicator
01 is on, or Gothic 15 (FONT(222)) if indicator 01 is off and indicators
02 and 03 are on. Otherwise, the font specified on the CRTPRTF command
is used.
FLD2 uses Gothic 15 if indicators 02 and 03 are on.
Otherwise, the font specified on the CRTPRTF command is used.
FLD3
uses Century Schoolbook** with a point size of 12 (FONT(16951 (*POINTSIZE
12))) if indicator 05 is on, or Century Schoolbook with a point size
of 10 if indicator 05 is off and indicator 04 is on. Otherwise, the
font specified on the CRTPRTF command is used.
FLD4 uses Goudy
old style (FONT(4919)).
FLD5 specifies font 416 with a vertical
point size of 5.0 and a horizontal point size of 3.0.