Function resolution

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Functions > Functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Functions

Function resolution
A function is invoked by its function name, which is implicitly
or explicitly qualified with a schema name, followed by parentheses
that enclose the arguments to the function.
Within the database, each function is uniquely identified
by its function signature, which is its schema name, function name,
the number of parameters, and the data types of the parameters. Thus,
a schema can contain several functions that have the same name but
each of which have a different number of parameters, or parameters
with different data types. Or, a function with the same name, number
of parameters, and types of parameters can exist in multiple schemas.
When any function is invoked, the database manager must determine
which function to execute. This process is called function
resolution.
Determining the set of candidate functions:
Let A be the number of arguments in a function invocation.
Let P be the number of parameters in a function signature.
Let N be the number of parameters in a function signature without
a defined default.

Candidate functions for resolution of a function invocation
are selected based on the following criteria:
Each candidate function has a matching name and applicable number
of parameters. An applicable number of parameters satisfies the condition
N ≤ A ≤ P.
Each parameter of a candidate function that does not have a corresponding
argument in the function invocation, specified by either position
or name, is defined with a default.
Each candidate function from a set of one or more schemas has
the EXECUTE privilege associated with the authorization ID of the
statement invoking the function.

Function resolution is similar for functions that are
invoked with a qualified or unqualified function name with the exception
that for an unqualified name, the database manager needs to search
more than one schema.
Qualified function resolution: When a function is invoked
with a function name and a schema name, the database manager only
searches the specified schema for candidate functions. If no candidate
function in the schema is found, an error is returned. If a function
is selected, its successful use depends on it being invoked in a context
in which the returned result is allowed. For example, if the function
returns an integer data type where a character data type is required,
or returns a table where a table is not allowed, an error is returned.

Unqualified function resolution: When a function is invoked
with only a function name, the database manager needs to search more
than one schema to resolve the function instance to execute. The SQL
path contains the list of schemas to search. For each schema in the
SQL path (see SQL path), the database manager
selects candidate functions.If no candidate function in any schema
in the path is found, an error is returned. If a function is selected,
its successful use depends on it being invoked in a context in which
the returned result is allowed. For example, if the function returns
an integer data type where a character data type is required, or returns
a table where a table is not allowed, an error is returned.

After the database manager identifies
the candidate functions, it selects the candidate with the best fit
as the function instance to execute (see Determining the best fit).
If more than one schema contains the function instance with the best
fit (the function signatures are identical except for the schema name),
the database manager selects the function whose schema is earliest
in the SQL path.
Function resolution applies to all functions, including
built-in functions. Built-in functions logically exist in schema QSYS2.
If schema QSYS2 is not explicitly specified in the SQL path, the schema
is implicitly assumed at the front of the path. When an unqualified
function name is specified, the SQL path must be set to a list of
schemas in the desired search order so that the intended function
is selected.
In a CREATE VIEW or CREATE TABLE statement,
function resolution occurs at the time the view or materialized query
table is created. If another function with the same name is subsequently
created, the view or materialized query table is not affected, even
if the new function is a better fit than the one chosen at the time
the view or materialized table was created. In a CREATE FUNCTION,
CREATE PROCEDURE, CREATE TRIGGER, CREATE VARIABLE, CREATE MASK, or
CREATE PERMISSION statement, function resolution occurs at the time
the function, procedure, trigger, variable, mask, or permission is
created. The schema of the function that was chosen is saved in the
trigger, variable, mask, and permission. It is also saved in functions
and procedures for default expressions. If another function with the
same name is subsequently created, the function, procedure, trigger,
variable, mask, permission, or routine default is only affected if
the new function is a better fit than the one chosen at the time the
object was created.

Parent topic: Functions