Subtract a duration

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes > SUBDUR (Subtract Duration) > SUBDUR (Subtract Duration)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes > SUBDUR (Subtract Duration)

Subtract a duration

The SUBDUR operation can be used to subtract a duration specified
in factor 2 from a field or constant specified in factor 1 and place
the resulting Date, Time or Timestamp in the field specified in the
result field.

Factor 1 is optional and may contain a Date, Time or Timestamp
field, array, array element, literal or constant. If factor 1 contains
a field name, array or array element then its data type must be the
same type as the field specified in the result field. If factor 1
is not specified then the duration is subtracted from the field specified
in the result field.

Factor 2 is required and contains two subfactors. The first is
a numeric field, array or constant with zero decimal positions. If
the field is negative then the duration is added to the field. The
second subfactor must be a valid duration code indicating the type
of duration. The duration code must be consistent with the result
field data type. For example, you can subtract a year, month or day
duration but not a minute duration from a date field. For list of
duration codes and their short forms see Date Operations.

The result field must be a date, time or timestamp data type field,
array or array element. If factor 1 is blank, the duration is subtracted
from the value in the result field. If the result field is an array,
the value in factor 2 is subtracted from each element in the array.
If the result field is a time field, the result will always be a valid
Time. For example, subtracting 59 minutes from 00:58:59 would give
-00:00:01. Since this time is not valid, the compiler adjusts it to
23:59:59.

When subtracting a duration in months from a date, the general
rule is that the month portion is decreased by the number of months
in the duration, and the day portion is unchanged. The exception to
this is when the resulting day portion would exceed the actual number
of days in the resulting month. In this case, the resulting day portion
is adjusted to the actual month end date. The following examples (which
assume a *YMD format) illustrate this point.

'95/05/30' SUBDUR 1:*MONTHS results in '95/04/30'
The
resulting month portion has been decreased by 1; the day portion is
unchanged.

'95/05/31' SUBDUR 1:*MONTHS results in '95/04/30'
The
resulting month portion has been decreased by 1; the resulting day
portion has been adjusted because April has only 30 days.

Similar results occur when subtracting a year duration. For example,
subtracting one year from '92/02/29' results in '91/02/28', an adjusted
value since the resulting year is not a leap year.

For more information on subtracting
month and year durations, see Unexpected Results.

Note: The
system places a 15 digit limit on durations. Subtracting a Duration
with more than 15 significant digits will cause errors or truncation.
These problems can be avoided by limiting the first subfactor in Factor
2 to 15 digits.

Parent topic: SUBDUR (Subtract Duration)