UPDATE

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

UPDATE
The UPDATE statement updates the values of specified columns
in rows of a table or view. Updating a row of a view updates a row
of its base table, if no INSTEAD OF UPDATE trigger is defined on this
view. If such a trigger is defined, the trigger will be activated
instead.
There are two forms of this statement:
The Searched UPDATE form is used to update one or more
rows (optionally determined by a search condition).
The Positioned UPDATE form is used to update exactly one
row (as determined by the current position of a cursor).

InvocationA Searched UPDATE statement can
be embedded in an application program or issued interactively. A Positioned
UPDATE must be embedded in an application program. Both forms are
executable statements that can be dynamically prepared.
AuthorizationThe privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
For the table or view identified in the statement: The UPDATE privilege on the table or view, or
The UPDATE privilege on each column to be updated; and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the table
or view

Database administrator authority

If the expression in the assignment-clause contains
a reference to a column of the table or view, or if the search-condition in
a Searched UPDATE contains a reference to a column of the table or
view, then the privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement
must also include one of the following:
The SELECT privilege on the table or view
security administrator authority

If the search-condition includes a subquery or if the assignment-clause includes
a scalar-fullselect or row-fullselect, see Queries for an explanation of the authorization
required for each subselect.
For information about the system
authorities corresponding to SQL privileges, see Corresponding System Authorities
When Checking Privileges to a Table or View.
SyntaxSearched
UPDATE: UPDATEtable-nameview-namecorrelation-clauseOVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUEOVERRIDING USER VALUESETassignment-clauseWHEREsearch-conditionisolation-clauseconcurrent-access-resolution-clause
Positioned UPDATE: UPDATEtable-nameview-namecorrelation-clauseOVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUEOVERRIDING USER VALUESETassignment-clauseWHERE CURRENT OFcursor-name
assignment-clause,column-name(column-name) = expressionNULLDEFAULT(,column-name) = (,expressionNULLDEFAULTrow-fullselect)ROW = (,expressionNULLDEFAULTrow-fullselect)
isolation–clauseWITHNCURCSRSRR

Descriptiontable-name or view-name
Identifies the table or view
to be updated. The name must identify a table or view that exists
at the current server, but it must not identify a catalog table, a
view of a catalog table, or a read-only view. For an explanation of
read-only views and updatable views, see CREATE VIEW.
correlation-clause
Can be used within search-condition or assignment-clause to
designate the table or view. For an explanation of correlation-clause,
see table-reference. For an explanation of correlation-name,
see Correlation names.
OVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUE or OVERRIDING USER VALUE
Specifies whether system-generated values or user-specified values
for a ROWID, identity, or row change timestamp column are used. If
OVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUE is specified, the implicit or explicit list
of columns in the SET clause must contain a ROWID,
identity, or row change timestamp column defined as GENERATED
ALWAYS. If OVERRIDING USER VALUE is specified, the implicit or explicit
list of columns in the SET clause must contain a column defined as
either GENERATED ALWAYS or GENERATED BY DEFAULT.OVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUE
Specifies that the value specified in the SET clause for a ROWID, identity, or row change timestamp column that
is defined as GENERATED ALWAYS is used. A system-generated value is
not used.
If a value for a row-begin, row-end, transaction-start-ID,
or generated expression column is provided, it must be DEFAULT.
OVERRIDING USER VALUE
Specifies that the value specified in the SET clause for a column
that is defined as either GENERATED ALWAYS or GENERATED BY DEFAULT
is ignored. Instead, a system-generated value is used, overriding
the user-specified value.

If neither OVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUE or OVERRIDING
USER VALUE is specified:
A value cannot be specified for a ROWID, identity, row change
timestamp, row-begin, row-end, transaction-start-ID,
or generated expression column that is defined as GENERATED ALWAYS.
A value can be specified for a ROWID column that is defined as
GENERATED BY DEFAULT. If a value is specified, that value is assigned
to the column. However, a value in a ROWID column defined BY DEFAULT
can be updated only if the specified value is a valid row ID value
that was previously generated by DB2® for z/OS® or DB2 for
i.
A value can be specified for an identity or row change timestamp
column that is defined as GENERATED BY DEFAULT. When a value of an
identity column or row change timestamp column defined BY DEFAULT
is updated, the database manager does not verify that the specified
value is a unique value for the column unless the identity column
or row change timestamp column is the sole key in a unique constraint
or unique index. Without a unique constraint or unique index, the
database manager can guarantee unique values only among the set of
system-generated values as long as NO CYCLE is in effect. If a
value is not specified the database manager generates a new value.

SET
Introduces
the assignment of values to column names.
assignment-clause
column-name
Identifies
a column to be updated. The column-name must
identify a column of the specified table or view. If extended indicator
variables are not enabled, that column must not identify a view column
derived from a scalar function, constant, or expression. A column
must not be specified more than once. For a Positioned UPDATE:

If the UPDATE clause was specified in the SELECT statement of
the cursor, each column name in the SET list must also appear in the
UPDATE clause.
If the UPDATE clause was not specified in the SELECT statement
of the cursor, the name of any updatable column may be specified.

For more information, see update-clause.
A
view column derived from the same column as another column of the
view can be updated, but both columns cannot be updated in the same
UPDATE statement.
If a list of column-names is
specified, the number of expressions, NULLs,
and DEFAULTS must match the number of column-names.

ROW
Identifies
all the columns of the specified table or view except for columns
defined with the hidden attribute. If a view is specified, none of
the columns of the view may be derived from a scalar function, constant,
or expression. The number of expressions,
NULLs, and DEFAULTs (or the number of result columns from a row-fullselect)
must match the number of columns in the row.
For a Positioned
UPDATE, if the UPDATE clause was specified in the SELECT statement
of the cursor, each column of the table or view must also appear in
the UPDATE clause. For more information, see update-clause.
ROW may not be specified
for a view that contains a view column derived from the same column
as another column of the view, because both columns cannot be updated
in the same UPDATE statement.

expression
Specifies
the new value of the column. The expression is
any expression of the type described in Expressions.
It must not include an aggregate function. A column-name in
an expression must name a column of the named table or view. For each
row updated, the value of the column in the expression is the value
of the column in the row before the row is updated.
Each variable
in the clause must identify a host structure or variable that is declared
in accordance with the rules for declaring host structures and variables.
In the operational form of the statement, a reference to a host structure
is replaced by a reference to each of its variables. If expression is
a single host variable, the host variable can include an indicator
that is enabled for extended indicator variables. If extended indicator
variables are enabled and an expression in the assignment clause is
not a single host variable, the extended indicator variable values
of DEFAULT and UNASSIGNED must not be used. For further information
about variables and structures, see References to host variables and Host structures. If a host structure is specified,
the keyword ROW must be specified.

NULL
Specifies
the new value for a column is the null value. NULL should only be
specified for nullable columns.
DEFAULT
Specifies
that the default value is assigned to a column. The value that is
used depends on how the column was defined, as follows: If the column is defined as a generated column based
on an expression, the column value will be generated by the database
manager, based on the expression.
If the column is a ROWID, identity column, row-begin
column, row-end column, or transaction-start-ID column, the database
manager will generate a new value.
If the WITH DEFAULT clause is used, the default used is as defined
for the column (see default-clause in column-definition in CREATE TABLE).
If the WITH DEFAULT clause or the NOT NULL clause is not used,
the value used is NULL.
If the column is defined as a row change timestamp column, a new
row change timestamp value is assigned to the column.

If the NOT NULL clause is used and the WITH DEFAULT clause
is not used, or if DEFAULT NULL is used, the DEFAULT keyword cannot
be specified for that column.
DEFAULT must be specified for
an identity column defined as GENERATED ALWAYS unless OVERRIDING SYSTEM
VALUE is used.
The only value that a row-begin,
row-end, transaction-start-ID, or generated expression column can
be set to is DEFAULT.

row-fullselect
A
fullselect that returns a single result row. The number of result
columns in the select list must match the number of column-names (or
if ROW is specified, the number of columns in the row) specified for
assignment. The result column values are assigned to each corresponding column-name.
If the result of the fullselect is no rows, then null values are assigned.
An error is returned if there is more than one row in the result. The row-fullselect may
contain references to columns of the target table of the UPDATE statement.
For each row updated, the value of such a column in the expression
is the value of the column in the row before the row is updated.

WHERE
Specifies the
rows to be updated. The clause can be omitted, or a search-condition or cursor-name can
be specified. If the clause is omitted, all rows of the table or view
are updated. search-condition
Is
any search described in Search conditions. Each column-name in
the search condition, other than in a subquery, must name a column
of the table or view. When the search condition includes a subquery
in which the same table is the base object of both the UPDATE and
the subquery, the subquery is completely evaluated before any rows
are updated. The search-condition is
applied to each row of the table or view. The updated rows are those
for which the results of the search-condition are
true.
If the search-condition contains
a subquery, the subquery can be thought of as being executed each
time the search-condition is applied to
a row, and the results of that subquery used in applying the search-condition.
In actuality, a subquery with no correlated references may be executed
only once. A subquery with a correlated reference may have to be executed
once for each row.

CURRENT OF cursor-name
Identifies the cursor to be
used in the update operation. The cursor-name must
identify a declared cursor as explained in DECLARE CURSOR.
The table or view named must also be named in the FROM clause
of the SELECT statement of the cursor, and the result table of the
cursor must not be read-only. For an explanation of read-only result
tables, see DECLARE CURSOR.
The
DECLARE CURSOR statement must not have a period-specification for
the table or view used by the update statement.
When the UPDATE
statement is executed, the cursor must be positioned on a row; that
row is updated.

isolation-clause
Specifies
the isolation level to be used for this statement. WITH
Introduces
the isolation level, which may be one of: RR Repeatable read
RS Read stability
CS Cursor stability
UR Uncommitted read
NC No commit

If isolation-clause is
not specified the default isolation is used. See isolation-clause for a description of how the default
is determined.
concurrent-access-resolution-clause
Specifies the concurrent access resolution
to use for the select statement. For more information, see concurrent-access-resolution-clause.

UPDATE RulesAssignment: Update
values are assigned to columns in accordance with the storage assignment
rules described in Assignments and comparisons.
Validity: Updates must obey the following rules.
If they do not, or if any other errors occur during the execution
of the UPDATE statement, no rows are updated.
Fullselects: The row-fullselect or scalar-fullselect shall
return no more than one row (SQLSTATE 21000).
Unique constraints and unique indexes: If the identified
table, or the base table of the identified view, has one or more unique
indexes or unique constraints, each row update in the table must conform
to the limitations imposed by those indexes and constraints (SQLSTATE
23505). All uniqueness checks are effectively made at the end
of the statement. In the case of a multiple-row UPDATE statement
of a column involved in a unique index or unique constraint, this
would occur after all rows were updated.

Check constraints: If the identified table, or the
base table of the identified view, has one or more check constraints,
each check constraint must be true or unknown for each row updated
in the table (SQLSTATE 23513). All check constraints are effectively
validated at the end of the statement. In the case of a multiple-row
UPDATE statement, this would occur after all rows were updated.

Views and the WITH CHECK OPTION: If a view is identified,
the updated rows must conform to any applicable WITH CHECK OPTION
(SQLSTATE 44000). For more information, see CREATE VIEW.

Triggers: If the identified table
or the base table of the identified view has an update trigger, the
trigger is activated. A trigger might cause other statements to be
executed or raise error conditions based on the updated values.
Referential Integrity: The value of the parent key in a
parent row must not be changed.
If the update values produce
a foreign key that is nonnull, the foreign key must be equal to some
value of the parent key of the parent table of the relationship.
The
referential constraints (other than a referential constraint with
a RESTRICT delete rule) are effectively checked at the end of the
statement. In the case of a multiple-row UPDATE statement, this would
occur after all rows were updated.
XML values: When an XML column is updated,
the new value must be a well-formed XML document.
Updating rows in a table for which row
or column access control is enforced: When an UPDATE statement
is issued for a table for which row or column access control is enforced,
the rules specified in the enabled row permissions or column masks
determine whether the row can be updated. Typically those rules are
based on the authorization ID of the statement. The following describes
how enabled row permissions and column masks are used during UPDATE:Row permissions are used to identify the set of rows to be updated.When
multiple enabled row permissions are defined for a table, a row access
control search condition is derived by application of the logical
OR operator to the search condition in each enabled permission. This
row access control search condition is applied to the table to determine
which rows are accessible to the authorization ID of the UPDATE statement.
If the WHERE clause is specified in the UPDATE statement, the user-specified
predicates are applied on the accessible rows to determine the rows
to be updated. If there is no WHERE clause, all the accessible rows
are the rows to be updated.

If there are rows to be updated, the following rules determine
whether those rows can be updated:When a column is referenced while deriving the values of a new
row, if the column has an enabled column mask, the masked value is
used to derive the new values. If the object table also has column
access control activated, the column mask that is applied to derive
the new values must return the column itself, not a constant or an
expression. If the column mask does not mask the column to itself,
the new value cannot be used for update and an error is returned.
If the rows are updatable, and there is a BEFORE UPDATE trigger
for the table, the trigger is activated.Within the trigger actions,
the new values for update might be modified in transition variables.
When the final values are returned from the trigger, the new values
are used for the update.

The rows that are to be updated must conform to the enabled row
permissions: For each row that is to be updated, the old values
are replaced with the new values that were specified in the UPDATE
statement. A row that conforms to the enabled row permissions is a
row that, if updated, can be retrieved using the derived row access
control search condition.

If the rows are updatable, and there is an AFTER UPDATE trigger
for the table, the trigger is activated.

Masked data can be assigned to a variable used as a value
for the update operation. If an update violation check constraint
does not exist for the column, the masked data will be updated into
the column and no error will be issued.
Updating a partitioning key of a partitioned
table: If a partitioning key of a row of a partitioned table is
updated such that the row belongs in a different partition:The specified target table must not be an alias that references
a single partition of the table.
The specified target table must be journaled.

Extended indicator variable usage: If enabled,
indicator variable values other than positive values and 0 (zero)
through -7 must not be used. The DEFAULT and UNASSIGNED extended indicator
variable values must not appear in contexts in which they are not
supported.
Extended indicator variables: In the assignment-clause of
an UPDATE statement, an expression that is a reference to a single
host variable can result in assigning an extended indicator variable
value. Assigning an extended indicator variable value of UNASSIGNED
has the same effect as if the column hadn't been specified in the assignment-clause.
Assigning an extended indicator variable value of DEFAULT can only
be used for a column that has a default value or that
is defined as GENERATED ALWAYS and will have a new value generated,
such as a row change timestamp column.
If a target column
is not updatable, it must be assigned the extended indicator variable
value of UNASSIGNED, sunless it is a generated column
defined as GENERATED ALWAYS. If the target column is a generated column
defined as GENERATED ALWAYS, then it must be assigned the extended
indicator variable value of DEFAULT or UNASSIGNED.
An
UPDATE statement must not assign all target columns from an extended
indicator variable value of UNASSIGNED.
Extended indicator
variables and update triggers: If a target column has been assigned
an extended indicator variable value of UNASSIGNED, that column is
not considered to have been updated.
Extended indicator variables
and deferred error checks: When extended indicator variables are
enabled, validation that would otherwise be done during statement
preparation to recognize an update of a non-updatable column is deferred
until the statement is executed.
Considerations for a system-period temporal
table: When a row of a system-period temporal table is updated,
the database manager updates the values of the row-begin and transaction-start-ID
columns as follows: A row-begin column is assigned a value that is generated using
a reading of the time-of-day clock during execution of the first data
change statement in the transaction that requires a value to be assigned
to the row begin or transaction start-ID column in a table, or a row
in a system-period temporal table is deleted. The database manager
ensures uniqueness of the generated values for a row-begin column
across transactions. The timestamp value might be adjusted to ensure
that rows inserted into an associated history table have the end timestamp
value greater than the begin timestamp value which can happen when
a conflicting transaction is updating the same row in the system-period
temporal table. The SYSTIME_PERIOD_ADJ QAQQINI option must be set
to *ADJUST for this adjustment to the timestamp value to occur. If
multiple rows are updated within a single SQL transaction and an adjustment
is not needed, the values for the row-begin column are the same for
all the rows and are unique from the values generated for the column
for another transaction.
A transaction start-ID column is assigned a unique timestamp value
per transaction or the null value The null value is assigned to the
transaction start-ID column if the column is nullable and there is
a row-begin column in the table for which the value did not need to
be adjusted. Otherwise, the value is generated using a reading of
the time-of-day clock during execution of the first data change statement
in the transaction that requires a value to be assigned to the row
begin or transaction start-ID column in a table, or a row in a system-period
temporal table is deleted. If multiple rows are updated within a single
SQL transaction, the values for the transaction start-ID column are
the same for all the rows and are unique from the values generated
for the column for another transaction.

If the UPDATE statement has a search condition containing
a correlated subquery that references historical rows (explicitly
referencing the name of the history table name or implicitly through
the use of a period specification in the FROM clause), the old version
of the updated rows that are inserted as historical rows (into the
history table if any) are potentially visible to update operations
for the rows subsequently processed for the statement.
If the
CURRENT TEMPORAL SYSTEM_TIME special register is set to a non-null
value and the value of the SYSTIME option is YES, the underlying target
(direct or indirect) of the UPDATE statement cannot be a system-period
temporal table.
If the CURRENT TEMPORAL SYSTEM_TIME special
register is set to a non-null value and the value of the SYSTIME option
is YES, the target of an UPDATE statement cannot be a view defined
with the WITH CHECK OPTION if the view definition includes a WHERE
clause containing an invocation of an external routine with a data
access indication other than NO SQL.
Considerations for a history table: When
a row of a system-period temporal table is updated, a historical copy
of the row is inserted into the corresponding history table and the
end timestamp of the historical row is captured in the form of a system
determined value that corresponds to the time of the data change operation.
The database manager assigns the value that is generated using a reading
of the time-of-day clock during execution of the first data change
statement in the transaction that requires a value to be assigned
to the row begin or transaction start-ID column in a table, or a row
in a system-period temporal table is deleted. The database manager
ensures uniqueness of the generated values for an end column in a
history table across transactions. The timestamp value might be adjusted
to ensure that rows inserted into the history table have the end timestamp
value greater than the begin timestamp value which can happen when
a conflicting transaction is updating the same row in the system-period
temporal table. The SYSTIME_PERIOD_ADJ QAQQINI option must be set
to *ADJUST for this adjustment to the timestamp value to occur. Otherwise,
an error is returned.
For an update operation, the adjustment
only affects the value for the end column corresponding to the row-end
column in the history table associated with the system-period temporal
table. Take these adjustments into consideration on subsequent references
to the table whether there is a search for the transaction start time
in the values for the columns corresponding to the row-begin and row-end
columns of the period in the associated system-period temporal table.
NotesUpdate
operation errors: If an update value violates any constraints,
or if any other error occurs during the execution of the UPDATE statement
and COMMIT(*NONE) was not specified, all changes made during the execution
of the statement are backed out. However, other changes in the unit
of work made prior to the error are not backed out. If COMMIT(*NONE)
is specified, changes are not backed out.
It is possible for an error to occur that makes the state
of the cursor unpredictable.
Number of rows updated: When an UPDATE statement
completes execution, the number of rows updated is returned in the
ROW_COUNT statement information item in the SQL Diagnostics Area (and
SQLERRD(3) in the SQLCA). For a description of the SQLCA, see SQLCA (SQL communication area).
For a description of ROW_COUNT,
see GET DIAGNOSTICS. For a description of the
SQLCA, see SQLCA (SQL communication area).
Locking: Unless appropriate locks already exist,
one or more exclusive locks are acquired by the execution of a successful
UPDATE statement. Until these locks are released by a commit or rollback
operation, the updated rows can only be accessed by:
The application process that performed the update.
Another application process using COMMIT(*NONE) or COMMIT(*CHG)
through a read-only operation

The
locks can prevent other application processes from performing operations
on the table. For further information about locking, see the description
of the COMMIT, ROLLBACK, and LOCK TABLE statements, and isolation
levels in Isolation level. Also, see the Database
Programming topic collection.
A maximum of 500 000 000 rows can be updated or changed
in any single UPDATE statement when COMMIT(*RR), COMMIT(*ALL), COMMIT(*CS),
or COMMIT(*CHG) has been specified. The number of rows changed includes
any rows inserted, updated, or deleted under the same commitment definition
as a result of a trigger.
REXX: Variables
cannot be used in the UPDATE statement within a REXX procedure. Instead, the UPDATE
must be the object of a PREPARE and EXECUTE using parameter markers.
Datalinks: If the URL value of a DATALINK column
is updated, this is the same as deleting the old DATALINK value then
inserting the new one. First, if the old value was linked to a file,
that file is unlinked. Then, unless the linkage attributes of the
DATALINK value are empty, the specified file is linked to that column.
The comment value of a DATALINK column can be updated
without relinking the file by specifying an empty string as the URL
path (for example, as the data-location argument of the DLVALUE scalar
function or by specifying the new value to be the same as the old
value). If a DATALINK column is updated with a null, it is the same
as deleting the existing DATALINK value.
An error may occur when attempting to update a DATALINK
value if the file server of either the existing value or the new value
is no longer registered with the database server
Syntax alternatives: The following keywords are
synonyms supported for compatibility to prior releases. These keywords
are non-standard and should not be used:
The keyword NONE can be used as a synonym for NC.
The keyword CHG can be used as a synonym for UR.
The keyword ALL can be used as a synonym for RS.

ExamplesExample 1: Change the job
(JOB) of employee number (EMPNO) ‘000290' in the EMPLOYEE table
to ‘LABORER'.
UPDATE EMPLOYEE
SET JOB = 'LABORER'
WHERE EMPNO = '000290'

Example 2: Increase the project staffing (PRSTAFF)
by 1.5 for all projects that department (DEPTNO) ‘D21' is responsible
for in the PROJECT table.
UPDATE PROJECT
SET PRSTAFF = PRSTAFF + 1.5
WHERE DEPTNO = 'D21'

Example 3: All the employees except the manager
of department (WORKDEPT) ‘E21' have been temporarily reassigned.
Indicate this by changing their job (JOB) to NULL and their pay (SALARY,
BONUS, COMM) values to zero in the EMPLOYEE table.
UPDATE EMPLOYEE
SET JOB=NULL, SALARY=0, BONUS=0, COMM=0
WHERE WORKDEPT = 'E21' AND JOB <> 'MANAGER'

Example 4: In a Java program
display the rows from the EMPLOYEE table on the connection context
'ctx' and then, if requested to do so, change the job (JOB) of certain
employees to the new job keyed in (NEWJOB).
#sql iterator empIterator implements sqlj.runtime.ForUpdate
with( updateColumns='JOB' )
( … );
empIterator C1;

#sql [ctx] C1 = { SELECT * FROM EMPLOYEE };

#sql { FETCH :C1 INTO … };
while ( !C1.endFetch() ) {
System.out.println( … );
…
if ( condition for updating row ) {
#sql [ctx] { UPDATE EMPLOYEE
SET JOB = :NEWJOB
WHERE CURRENT OF :C1 };
}

#sql { FETCH :C1 INTO … };
}
C1.close();

Parent topic: Statements