Local data area

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Communicating between programs and procedures > Using data areas > Using data areas

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Communicating between programs and procedures > Using data areas

Local data area
A local data area is created for each job in the system,
including autostart jobs, jobs started on the system by a reader, and subsystem
monitor jobs.
The system creates a local data area, which is initially filled with blanks,
with a length of 1024 and type *CHAR. When you submit a job using the SBMJOB
command, the value of the submitting job's local data area is copied into
the submitted job's local data area. You can refer to your job's local data
area by specifying *LDA for the DTAARA keyword on the CHGDTAARA, RTVDTAARA,
and DSPDTAARA commands or *LDA for the substring built-in function (%SST).
The following is true of a local data area:
The local data area cannot be referred to from any other job.
You cannot create, delete, or allocate a local data area.
No library is associated with the local data area.
You cannot change the local data area in a secondary thread.
The ILE CL compiler generates code to ensure that a procedure running
in a secondary thread cannot access the local data area while a procedure
running in the initial thread is changing it.

The local data area contents exist across routing step boundaries. Therefore,
using a Transfer Job (TFRJOB), Transfer Batch
Job (TFRBCHJOB), Reroute Job (RRTJOB), or Return
(RETURN) command does not affect the contents of the local data
area.
You can use the local data area to:
Pass information to a procedure or program without the use of a parameter
list.
Pass information to a submitted job by loading your information into the
local data area and submitting the job. Then, you can access the data from
within your submitted job.
Improve performance over other types of data area accesses from a CL procedure
or program.
Store information without the overhead of creating and deleting a data
area yourself.

Most high-level languages can also use the local data area. The SBMxxxJOB
and STRxxxRDR commands cause jobs to start with a local data area initialized
to blanks. Only the SBMJOB command allows the contents of the submitting
job's local data area to be passed to the new job.

Parent topic: Using data areas

Related information
Create Data Area (CRTDTAARA) command
Retrieve Data Area (RTVDTAARA) command
Change Data Area (CHGDTAARA) command
Display Data Area (DSPDTAARA) command
Delete Data Area (DLTDTAARA) command