General RPG IV Program Cycle

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > Procedures and the Program Logic Cycle > RPG Cycle and other implicit Logic > Program Cycle > Program Cycle

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > RPG IV Concepts > Procedures and the Program Logic Cycle > RPG Cycle and other implicit Logic > Program Cycle

General RPG IV Program Cycle

Figure 1 shows the specific steps in the general
flow of the RPG IV program cycle. A program cycle begins with step
1 and continues through step 7, then begins again with step 1.

The first and last time a program goes through the RPG IV cycle
differ somewhat from the normal cycle. Before the first record is
read the first time through the cycle, the program resolves any parameters
passed to it, writes the records conditioned by the 1P (first page)
indicator, does file and data initialization, and processes any heading
or detail output operations having no conditioning indicators or all
negative conditioning indicators. For example, heading lines printed
before the first record is read might consist of constant or page
heading information or fields for reserved words, such as PAGE and
*DATE. In addition, the program bypasses total calculations and total
output steps on the first cycle.

During the last time a program goes through the cycle, when no
more records are available, the LR (last record) indicator and L1
through L9 (control level) indicators are set on, and file and data
area cleanup is done.

Figure 1. RPG IV Program Logic
Cycle

1

All heading and detail lines (H or D in position 17 of the output
specifications) are processed.

2

The next input record is read and the record identifying and
control level indicators are set on.

3

Total calculations are processed. They are conditioned by an
L1 through L9 or LR indicator, or an L0 entry.

4

All total output lines are processed. (identified by a T in
position 17 of the output specifications).

5

It is determined if the LR indicator is on. If it is on, the
program is ended.

6

The fields of the selected input records are moved from the
record to a processing area. Field indicators are set on.

7

All detail calculations are processed (those not conditioned
by control level indicators in positions 7 and 8 of the calculation
specifications) on the data from the record read at the beginning
of the cycle.

Parent topic: Program Cycle