MSGID (Message Identifier) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

MSGID (Message Identifier) keyword for display files

You use this field-level keyword to allow
an application program to identify, at program run time, the message
description that contains text for a named field.

The parameter values on this keyword can specify fields
that contain the message identifier, message file, and library. After
the program sets the fields to the values you want, an output operation
causes the message to be retrieved from the message file and displayed.
The retrieved message is truncated if it is longer than the MSGID
field. The retrieved message is padded with blanks if it is shorter
than the MSGID field.
See System/36 environment considerations for display files for
information about how to specify the MSGID keyword in files that are
used in the System/36 environment.
The format
of the keyword is: MSGID(message-identifier [library-name/]message-file)
or
MSGID(*NONE)
The message-identifier parameter describes
the message description containing the text for the named field. You
can specify this parameter in one of two ways:
[msg-prefix] &field-name A message-prefix
and a field-name. The field-name must exist in the same record format
as the MSGID field. If you specify a prefix, the length of the prefix
must be three, and you must define the field-name as a character field
of length four (4), and usage H, P, B, or O. If you do not specify
a prefix, you must define the field-name as a character field length
of seven (7), and usage H, P, B, or O.

[msgid-prefix] msg-id You can also use a
value or a combination of values to specify the message identifier.
If you specify a prefix, the prefix length must be three (3), and
the msg-id length must be four (4). If you do not specify a prefix,
the msg-id length must be seven (7).

The message-identifier is a required parameter.
The
message-file and library parameters identify the message file containing
the message description. You can specify the message-file and library
parameters in one of the following forms:
[library-name/]file-name

[&field1/]&field2 where the lengths
of field1 and field2 are ten (10).
The field names must exist
in the same record format as the MSGID field, and the fields must
be defined as having character lengths of ten (10) and usage H, P,
B, or O.

Combination of field names and constants:
library-name/&field1 (length of field1 is
10)

&field2/file-name (length of field2 is 10)

The message-file is a required parameter. If you do not
specify the library parameter, *LIBL is used to search for the message
file at program runtime. The library is an optional parameter.
The
*NONE parameter indicates that no message text is to be displayed.
The
user or program can override the message file name by using the OVRMSGF
command.
You can specify multiple MSGID keywords on a field.
When more than one MSGID keyword is specified, option indicators are
required on all except the last MSGID keyword on a field. Option indicators
are not allowed on the last (or only) MSGID keyword specified on a
field. If more than one MSGID keyword is in effect for a field, the
first MSGID specified is used.
You can specify multiple MSGID
keywords within a record format. You can specify field names used
as parameters on more than one MSGID keyword.
You must have
use authority to the message file at program runtime.
The MSGID
field must be output-capable (usage B or O). The length specified
for the field is the length of the message text that is to be displayed.
It should be the length of the longest message to be displayed.
The
MSGID field itself does not appear in the output buffer, but it does
appear in the input buffer if it is defined as input/output (usage
B). MSGID fields that are defined as output-only cannot be used in
high-level language programs.
The MSGID parameter fields (if
any) appear in the output buffer, but they appear in the input buffer
only if they are defined as hidden or input/output (usage H or B)
fields.
A program-to-system field can be specified as the message-id,
file, or library name.
You cannot specify MSGID in a subfile
record format (SFL keyword).
The following keywords cannot be
specified on a field with the MSGID keyword:
DFT
DFTVAL
FLTFIXDEC
FLTPCN
MSGCON

ExampleThe following example shows how
to specify the MSGID keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A R RECORD1
A MSGFIELD1 40A B 02 10MSGID(CPD0001 QGPL/USRMSG)
A 01 MSGFIELD2 10A O 02 60
A 25 MSGID(&MSGIDNUM &MSGFILENM)
A MSGID(CPD1234 QGPL/USRMSG)
A MSGFIELD3 80A B 03 01
A MSGID(USR &MSGNBR +
A QGPL/&MSGFILENM)
A MSGIDNUM 7A P
A MSGFILENM 10A H
A MSGNBR 4A B 07 01
AWhen RECORD1 is displayed:
MSGFIELD1 contains the first 40 characters of message
CPD0001 from message file USRMSG in library QGPL. Because the field
is input/output (usage B), the value of the field can be changed by
the user.

If option indicator 01 is off, MSGFIELD2 is not displayed. When
option indicators 01 and 25 are on, MSGFIELD2 contains the first 10
characters of the message identified by the fields MSGIDNUM and MSGFILENM.
Values for MSGIDNUM (the message identifier) and MSGFILENM (the message
file) must be set in the program before the display of RECORD1. When option indicator 01 is on but option indicator
25 is off, MSGFIELD2 contains the first 10 characters of message CPD1234
from the message file USRMSG in library QGPL. Because MSGFIELD2 is
an output-only field (usage O), it cannot be used in the program.

MSGFIELD3 contains the first 80 characters of the message identified
by the prefix USR, the message number set in field MSGNBR, and the
message file set in field MSGFILENM.