MSGCON (Message Constant) keyword in printer files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

MSGCON (Message Constant) keyword in printer files

You use this field-level keyword to indicate
that the text for a constant field is contained in a message description.

If the message description does not
exist at DDS compilation time, the file is not created. If you change the
message description, you must create the file again.
The format of the
keyword is: MSGCON(length message-ID [library-name/]message-file-name)
The
length parameter specifies the maximum length of the message description.
The length can be from 1 to 132 bytes. If the message description is less
than the length specified, the remaining bytes are padded with blanks (hexadecimal
40). If the message description is longer than the length specified, the message
description is truncated to the specified length and a warning message appears.
The
message-ID parameter specifies the message description that contains the text
to use as the value of the constant field.
The message-file-name parameter
identifies the message file that contains the message description. The library-name
parameter is optional.
You must explicitly specify the MSGCON
keyword for the field. You can use the MSGCON keyword to initialize a named
field, only if you use POSITION (Position) keyword in the record and use the
special name *NONE.
The DFT and MSGCON keywords are functionally equivalent.
If you specify the DFT and MSGCON keywords for the same field, the MSGCON
keyword is ignored and the file is not created.
You cannot specify the
DATE, DFT, EDTCDE, EDTWRD, and TIME keywords with the MSGCON keyword.
Option
indicators are not valid for this keyword. However, they can be used to condition
the field with which this keyword is specified.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the MSGCON keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R RECORD1
00020A 2 1MSGCON(10 MSG0001 MESSAGES/MSGF)
AMSG0001 in message file MSGF in library MESSAGES contains
the message text.