Indexed Files

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > READ Statement > READ Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Procedure Division > Procedure Division Statements > READ Statement

Indexed Files
Indexed files can be read from the following device types:
DISK
DATABASE

Indexed files can be read in sequential, random, or dynamic access modes.
When an indexed file is read in sequential access mode, the record made available by the READ statement is determined as follows:
If the file position indicator was set by the processing of a START or
OPEN statement, the record pointed to is made available if it is still accessible
through the path indicated by the current record pointer. If the record is
no longer accessible (due, for example, to deletion of the record), the file
position indicator is updated to indicate the next existing record in the
file. That record is then made available.
If the file position indicator was set by the processing of a previous
READ statement, the file position indicator is updated to point to the next
existing record in the file. That record is then made available.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension For a file that
allows duplicate keys (the DUPLICATES phrase is specified in the file-control
entry), the records with duplicate key values are made available in the order
specified when the file was created. The system options are first-in first-out
(FIFO), last-in first-out (LIFO), and no specific sequence (if neither LIFO
not FIFO is specified). End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

When an indexed file is read in random access mode,
the record in the file with a key value equal to that of the current key of
reference is then made available. If the file does not contain such a record,
the INVALID KEY condition exists, and READ statement processing is unsuccessful.
If the FORMAT phrase is not specified on the I-O statement when indexed files
are read in random access mode, the first format defined in the file is used.
Note that if externally described keys are being used and no format is specified,
the first format included in the program is the one used to build the key.
This format may not necessarily be the first format in the file.
If the KEY phrase is not specified, the prime RECORD KEY becomes the key
of reference for this request. When dynamic access is specified, the prime
RECORD KEY is also used as the key of reference for subsequent executions
of sequential READ statements, until a different key of reference is established.
When the KEY phrase is specified, data-name-1 becomes the key of reference
for this request. When dynamic access is specified, this key of reference
is used for subsequent executions of sequential READ statements, until a different
key of reference is established.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension For a file that allows duplicate keys (the DUPLICATES phrase is specified
in the file-control entry), the first record with the specified key value
is made available. The first record is determined by the order specified
when the file was created. The system options are first-in first-out (FIFO),
last-in first-out (LIFO), and no specific sequence (if neither LIFO not FIFO
is specified).

To enable file status 02 for DUPLICATE KEY checking, you need:
The WITH DUPLICATES phrase in the SELECT clause
OPEN I-O or OPEN INPUT
The *DUPKEYCHK option of the OPTION parameter, or the DUPKEYCHK option
of the PROCESS statement.

End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

Parent topic: READ Statement