Using data areas

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Communicating between programs and procedures > Communicating between programs and procedures

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Communicating between programs and procedures

Using data areas
A data area is an object used to hold data for access by any job
running on the system.
A data area can be used whenever you need to store information
of limited size, independent of the existence of procedures or files. Typical
uses of data areas are:
To provide an area (perhaps within each job's QTEMP library) to pass information
within a job.
To provide a field that is easily and frequently changed to control references
within a job, such as: Supplying the next order number to be assigned
Supplying the next check number
Supplying the next save/restore media volume to be used

To provide a constant field for use in several jobs, such as a tax rate
or distribution list.
To provide limited access to a larger process that requires the data area.
A data area can be locked to a single user, thus preventing other users from
processing at the same time.

To create a data area other than a local or group data area, use the Create
Data Area (CRTDTAARA) command. By doing this, you create a separate
object in a specific library, and you can initialize it to a value. To use
the value in a CL procedure or program, use a Retrieve Data Area
(RTVDTAARA) command to bring the current value into a variable in
your procedure or program. If you change this value in your CL procedure or
program and want to return the new value to the data area, use the Change
Data Area (CHGDTAARA) command.
To display the current value,
use the Display Data Area (DSPDTAARA) command. You can
delete a data area using the Delete Data Area (DLTDTAARA) command.
You
can journal your data areas. This allows you to recover the object to a consistent
state, even if the object was in the middle of some change action when the
abnormal IPL or crash occurred. Journaling also provides for replication of
the data area journal to a remote system (using remote journal for instance).
This lets the system reproduce the actions in a similar environment to replicate
the application work.

Local data area
A local data area is created for each job in the system,
including autostart jobs, jobs started on the system by a reader, and subsystem
monitor jobs.
Group data area
The system creates a group data area when an interactive job becomes
a group job (using the Change Group Attributes (CHGGRPA) command).
Program Initialization Parameter data area
A Program Initialization Parameter (PIP) data area (PDA) is created
for each prestart job when the job is started.
Remote data areas
A remote data area is a data area on a remote
system.
Creating a data area
Unlike variables, data areas are objects and must be created before
they can be used.
Data area locking and allocation
Locking and allocating a data area helps to ensure that the data
area is not accessed by more than one job at a time.
Displaying a data area
By using the Display Data Area (DSPDTAARA) command,
you can display the attributes (name, library, type, length, data area text
description) and the value of a data area. The display uses the 24-digit format
with leading zeros suppressed.
Changing a data area
To change the value of a data area, use the Change Data
Area (CHGDTAARA) command.
Retrieving a data area
You can retrieve a data area and copy it to a
variable by using the Retrieve Data Area (RTVDTAARA) command.
Examples: Retrieving a data area
These examples show different ways of retrieving a data area.
Example: Changing and retrieving a data area
This example shows how to change and retrieve a data area.

Parent topic: Communicating between programs and procedures

Related information
Create Data Area (CRTDTAARA) command
Retrieve Data Area (RTVDTAARA) command
Change Data Area (CHGDTAARA) command
Display Data Area (DSPDTAARA) command
Delete Data Area (DLTDTAARA) command
Journal management