User Controlled Support for Null-Capable Fields and Key Fields

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Data Types and Data Formats > Database Null Value Support > Database Null Value Support

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Definitions > Data Types and Data Formats > Database Null Value Support

User Controlled Support for Null-Capable Fields and Key Fields

When an externally described file contains null-capable fields and the
ALWNULL(*USRCTL) keyword is specified on a control specification, you can
do the following:

Read, write, update, and
delete records with null values from externally described database files.

Retrieve and position-to records with null keys using keyed operations, by specifying an indicator in factor 2 of the KFLD associated
with the field.

Determine whether a null-capable field is actually null using the %NULLIND built-in function on the right-hand-side of an expression.

Set a null-capable field to be null for output or update using the %NULLIND built-in function on the left-hand-side of an
expression.

If you defined a null-capable field using the NULLIND keyword,
you can also use the null indicator specified as the parameter for the NULLIND keyword
instead of using %NULLIND.

You are responsible for ensuring that fields containing null values are
used correctly within the program. For example, if you use a null-capable
field on the right-hand-side of an EVAL operation, you should first check if it is null
before you do the MOVE, otherwise you may corrupt your result field value.
You should also be careful when outputting a null-capable field to a file
that does not have the field defined as null-capable, for example a WORKSTN
or PRINTER file, or a program-described file.
Note: The value of
the null indicator for a null-capable field is only considered for the following operations:
input, output, file-positioning and EVAL-CORR.
Here are some examples of operations where
the the null indicator is not taken into consideration:

DSPLY of a null-capable field shows the contents of the field even if
the null indicator is on.

If you move a null-capable field to another null-capable field, and the
factor 2 field has the null indicator on, the the result field will get the
data from the factor 2 field. The corresponding null indicator for the result
field will not be set on.

Comparison operations, including SORTA and LOOKUP, with null capable fields
do not consider the null indicators.

A field is considered null-capable if it is null-capable in any externally
described database record and is not defined as a constant in the program.

When a field is considered null-capable in an RPG program, a null indicator
is associated with the field. Note the following:

If the field is a multiple-occurrence data structure or a table, an array
of null indicators will be associated with the field. Each null indicator
corresponds to an occurrence of the data structure or element of the table.

If the field is an array element, the entire array will be considered
null-capable. An array of null indicators will be associated with the array,
each null indicator corresponds to an array element.

If the field is an element of an array subfield of a multiple-occurrence
data structure, an array of null indicators will be associated with the array
for each occurrence of the data structure.

Null indicators are initialized to zeros during program initialization
and thus null-capable fields do not contain null values when the program starts
execution.

Null-capable fields in externally-described data structures

Input of Null-Capable Fields

Output of Null-Capable Fields

Keyed Operations

Parent topic: Database Null Value Support