OUTBIN (Output Bin) keyword in printer files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Printer Files > Keyword entries for printer files (positions 45 through 80)

OUTBIN (Output Bin) keyword in printer files

You use this record-level keyword to
specify the destination of the output on printers capable of multiple output
bins.

The format of the keyword is:
OUTBIN(output-bin number | &output-bin number)The
possible values are:

*DEVD

The destination of the output is the device default output bin.

output-bin

Specify the output bin for the destination of the output. Valid values
range from 1 through 65535.

You can specify the output bin number as a constant or a
program-to-system field. When you specify the output bin number as a program-to-system
field, the field must exist in the same record format as the OUTBIN keyword.
It must be defined as a length of 5 with 0 decimal positions, data type S
and usage P.
If you do not specify the OUTBIN keyword, the value specified
on the OUTBIN parameter on the CRTPRTF, CHGPRTF, or OVRPRTF command determines
the output bin value.
Specify DEVTYPE(*AFPDS) on the CRTPRTF command
when OUTBIN is specified in the file. If DEVTYPE is changed to anything other
than *AFPDS, the keyword is ignored and a warning message is issued at print
time.
OUTBIN is ignored at run time if it is not specified
on a page boundary. The printer is on a page boundary when no named or constant
fields are processed for a page. As soon as a named or constant field is
processed, the printer is no longer on a page boundary. The printer is on
a page boundary again when a SKIP, SPACE, ENDPAGE, or INVMMAP keyword is processed,
which causes the printer to move to a new page.
OUTBIN, SKIP, and SPACE
keywords are processed in the following order:
SKIPB
SPACEB
OUTBIN
SPACEA
SKIPA OUTBIN is in effect only for the record
format specified. After records with the specified record format are processed,
the output bin for the next record format (if the OUTBIN keyword is not specified)
is the outbin specified at the file level (CRTPRTF, CHGPRTF, or OVRPRTF )
command.
Job and file separator pages will only be placed into the output
bin specified on the printer file.
Option indicators are valid for this
keyword.
Note: Using this DDS keyword can cause the system to
generate a spooled file that cannot be correctly printed when sent to MVS™.
The spooled file does not print and is held on the output queue by PSF or MVS.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the OUTBIN keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A*
A R REC1 OUTBIN(2)
A FLD1 5A 60 10
A*
When REC1 is printed, it is directed to output bin
2.