MOUBTN (Mouse Buttons) keyword for display files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Display Files > DDS keyword entries for display files (positions 45 through 80)

MOUBTN (Mouse Buttons) keyword for display files

You use this file-level or record-level keyword to
associate a Command key or EVENT-ID parameter with one or two pointer-device
events.

When a specified pointer device single event is performed and
no other function has a higher priority, the keyboard is locked, the cursor
is moved to the pointer device cursor location, and the specified Command
key or EVENT-ID is returned to the application. If the Command key or EVENT-ID
normally results in entry field data validation, the data validation is performed
first. If the specified Command key or EVENT-ID normally returns entry field
data, inbound entry field data is included.
For pointer device double
events, inbound data is not returned until the trailing edge event also occurs.
When the leading edge event is detected, a programmable-two-event state is
entered, a marker box is drawn around the location of the pointer device cursor
(4 blue lines around the character), the pointer device cursor color is changed
to white on a color nonprogrammable workstations (NWS) and the trailing edge
event is looked for. Keystrokes and host data streams will cancel the programmable-two-event
state. Some pointer device events are ignored while waiting for the trailing
edge event. When the trailing edge event is received, the marker box is erased,
the pointer device cursor color is changed to input inhibited, then keyboard
is locked, the text cursor is moved to the location of the pointer device
cursor, and the inbound data is returned to the host.
Note: Although it
is permitted, it is not be advisable to program some combinations of pointer
device events on the same mouse button and shift state. For example, if the
right button is programmed, right button double click should not be programmed
because it cannot be detected due to the keyboard being locked from the right
button pressed event. Using the *QUEUE parameter will allow the application
to handle this situation.
The format of this keyword is: MOUBTN(EVENT [TRAILING-EVENT] {Command key | EVENT-ID}
[*QUEUE | *NOQUEUE])
The EVENT parameter is required and
indicates the pointer device event that will be associated with the Command
key or EVENT-ID parameter. Valid values for the EVENT parameter are:

Value
Meaning

*ULP

Unshifted Left button Pressed

*ULR

Unshifted Left button Released

*ULD

Unshifted Left button Double click

*UMP

Unshifted Middle button Pressed

*UMR

Unshifted Middle button Released

*UMD

Unshifted Middle button Double click

*URP

Unshifted Right button Pressed

*URR

Unshifted Right button Released

*URD

Unshifted Right button Double click

*SLP

Shifted Left button Pressed

*SLR

Shifted Left button Released

*SLD

Shifted Left button Double click

*SMP

Shifted Middle button Pressed

*SMR

Shifted Middle button Released

*SMD

Shifted Middle button Double click

*SRP

Shifted Right button Pressed

*SRR

Shifted Right button Released

*SRD

Shifted Right button Double click

The TRAILING-EVENT parameter is optional. If specified,
this parameter defines the trailing event of a two event pointer device definition.
This parameter has the same valid values as the EVENT parameter. A TRAILING-EVENT
is be the trailing edge event for multiple leading edge events and have different
Command key or EVENT-ID associations for each one. An event is be a trailing
edge event and also defined as a single event (with a different Command key
or EVENT-ID association).
Note: There are some restrictions to the Event
definitions.
An event cannot be both a single event and a leading edge of a two event
sequence.

A leading edge event can have only one trailing edge event associated
with it.

If you use the same event as a single or leading edge event
with multiple mouse button definitions, only the first definition is used.
Either
the Command key or EVENT-ID parameter must be specified and associates a Command
key or EVENT-ID value with the pointer device event indicated by the first
(and second, if provided) parameters. Valid values for a Command key are CA01
through CA24, CF01 through CF24, ENTER, ROLLUP, ROLLDOWN, HELP, HOME, PRINT
and CLEAR. Valid EVENT-IDs are E00 through E15. EVENT-IDs are similar to CAxx
keys in that no input data is transmitted from the device.
The QUEUE
parameter is optional and specifies if the single event being defined should
be queued by the controller if received while the keyboard is locked. This
feature is primarily used to allow a double-click to be defined for a mouse
button that also has either the pressing or releasing of the same button defined.
If the queueing is not enabled for the double click, the application will
probably not know that the double-click has occurred since the keyboard will
still be locked from processing the pressing/releasing of the button. The
default is *NOQUEUE.
The following keywords cannot be specified when
the listed Command key has been used on the MOUBTN keyword:

Command key

Mutually exclusive keyword

CFxx

ALTHELP(CAyy),  CAxx
where xx=yy.

CAxx

ALTPAGEDWN(CFyy), ALTPAGEUP(CFyy), CFxx
where xx=yy.

CF01

ALTHELP with no parameter

CA07

ALTPAGEUP with no parameter

CA08

ALTPAGEDWN with no parameter

Although not required, it is valid to specify the CA01-CA24, CF01-CF24,
ROLLUP, ROLLDOWN, PAGEUP, PAGEDOWN, CLEAR and HLPRTN keywords even though
the associated function key is defined as a command key to a single or double
mouse event. Associating a Command key to a mouse event will automatically
enable the corresponding Command key from the keyboard. If you want to associate
a response indicator with the function key, you must use one of the listed
keywords to do this. In that case, the response indicator will be set on regardless
if the Command key originates from the keyboard or from a mouse event.
Option
Indicators are valid for this keyword.

ExampleThe following example shows
how to specify the MOUBTN keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
A MOUBTN(*URP CF03)
A MOUBTN(*SRP CF12)
A CF12(12 'CANCEL')
A R RECORD1
A MOUBTN(*ULP *UMP ROLLUP)
A MOUBTN(*UMP *ULP ROLLDOWN)
A 1 10'ONE--:'
A FIELD1 10A I 1 17TEXT('ONE')
A 2 10'TWO--:'
A FIELD2 10A I 2 17TEXT('TWO')
AIn this example, 2 Programmable Mouse Button events have
been defined that will be in effect for all records within this file (unless
overridden at the record level). These definitions associate the unshifted
right mouse button pressed event with the CF03 key and the shifted right mouse
button pressed event with the CF12 key. The CF03 key has no response indicator
associated with it while the CF12 key has response indicator 12 associated
with it.
Within RECORD1, two two-event mouse button events have been
defined. The first associates the unshifted left mouse button pressed followed
by the unshifted middle mouse button pressed with the ROLLUP key. The second
associates the unshifted middle mouse button pressed followed by the unshifted
left mouse button pressed with the ROLLDOWN key. These definitions are only
valid when RECORD1 is the last record to be written to the display.