UPDATE (Modify Existing Record)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes > Operation Codes

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operation Codes

UPDATE (Modify Existing Record)

Free-Form Syntax

UPDATE{(E)} name {data-structure |
%FIELDS(name{:name...})}

Code

Factor 1

Factor 2

Result Field

Indicators

UPDATE (E)

 

name (file
or record format)

data-structure

_

ER

_

The UPDATE operation modifies the last locked record retrieved
for processing from an update disk file or subfile. No other operation
should be performed on the file between the input operation that retrieved
the record and the UPDATE operation.

The name operand must be the name of a file
or record format to be updated. A record format name is required with
an externally described file. The record format name must be the
name of the last record read from the file; otherwise, an error occurs.
A file name as the name operand is required with
a program described file.

If the data-structure operand is specified, the record
is updated directly from the data structure. The data structure must
conform to the rules below:

If the data-structure operand is specified,
the record is updated directly from the data structure.

If name refers to a program-described
file, the data structure can be any data
structure of the same length as the file's declared record length.

If name refers to an externally-described
file or a record format from an externally described database file,
the data structure must be a data structure defined from the same
file or record format, with *INPUT, *OUTPUT, or *ALL specified as the second
parameter of the LIKEREC or EXTNAME keyword, or no second parameter
specified for the LIKEREC keyword.

If name refers to a subfile
record format from an externally described display file, the data
structure must be a data structure defined from the same file or record
format, with *OUTPUT or *ALL specified as the second parameter of the LIKEREC
or EXTNAME keyword.

See File Operations for information on how to define the
data structure and how data is transferred between the data structure
and the file.

A list of the fields to update can be specified using
%FIELDS. The parameter to %FIELDS is a list of the field names to
update. See the example at the end of %FIELDS (Fields to update) for
an illustration of updating fields.

To handle UPDATE exceptions (file status codes greater
than 1000), either the operation code extender 'E' or an error indicator
ER can be specified, but not both. For more information on error handling,
see File Exception/Errors.

Remember the following when using the UPDATE operation:

When name is a record format name, the current
values in the program for the fields in the record definition are
used to modify the record.

If some but not all fields in a record are to be updated, either
use the output specifications without an UPDATE operation or use %FIELDS
to identify which fields to update.

Before UPDATE is issued to a file or record, a valid input operation
with lock (READ, READC, READE, READP, READPE, CHAIN, or primary/secondary
file) must be issued to the same file or record. If the read operation
returns with an error condition or if it was read without locking,
the record is not locked and UPDATE cannot be issued. The record must
be read again with the default of a blank operation extender to specify
a lock request.

Consecutive UPDATE operations to the same file or record are not
valid. Intervening successful read operations must be issued to position
to and lock the record to be updated.

Beware of using the UPDATE operation on primary or secondary files
during total calculations. At this stage in the RPG IV cycle, the
fields from the current record (the record that is about to be processed)
have not yet been moved to the processing area. Therefore, the UPDATE
operation updates the current record with the fields from the preceding
record. Also, when the fields from the current record are moved to
the processing area, they are the fields that were updated from the
preceding record.

For multiple device files, specify a subfile record format as
the name operand. The operation is processed
for the program device identified in the fieldname specified using
the DEVID keyword in the file specification. If the program device
is not specified, the device used in the last successful input operation
is used. This device must be the same one you specified for the input
operation that must precede the UPDATE operation. You must not process
input or output operations to other devices in between the input and
UPDATE operations. If you do, your UPDATE operation will fail.

For a display file which has multiple subfile record formats,
you must not process read-for-update operations to one subfile record
in between the input and UPDATE operations to another subfile in the
same display file. If you do, the UPDATE operation will fail.

An UPDATE operation is valid to a subfile record format
as long as at least one successful input operation (READC, CHAIN)
has occurred to that format name without an intervening input operation
to a different format name. The record updated will be the record
retrieved on the last successful input operation. This means that
if you read a record successfully, then read unsuccessfully to the
same format, an update will succeed, but will update the first record.
This is different from the behavior of DISK files.
To avoid updating
the wrong record, check the resulting indicator or record-identifying
indicator to ensure that a successful input operation has occurred
before doing the update operation.

See Database Null Value Support for information on updating records with
null-capable fields containing null values.

For more information, see File Operations.

Parent topic: Operation Codes