VARBINARY

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

VARBINARY
The VARBINARY function returns a VARBINARY representation
of a string of any type.
VARBINARY(string-expression,integer)
The result of the function is VARBINARY. If the first
argument can be null, the result can be null; if the first argument
is null, the result is the null value.
string-expression
A string-expression whose value can be a character string,
graphic string, binary string, or row ID.
integer
An integer constant that specifies the length attribute
for the resulting binary string. The value must be between 1 and 32740
(32739 if nullable). If integer is not
specified:
If the string-expression is the empty string constant,
the length attribute of the result is 1.
Otherwise, the length attribute of the result is the same as the
length attribute of the first argument, unless the argument is a graphic
string. In this case, the length attribute of the result is twice
the length attribute of the argument.

The actual length of the result is the minimum of the length
attribute of the result and the actual length of the expression (or
twice the length of the expression when the input is graphic data).
If the length of the string-expression is greater than the
length attribute of the result, truncation is performed. A warning
(SQLSTATE 01004) is returned unless the first input argument is a
character string and all the truncated characters are blanks, or the
first input argument is a graphic string and all the truncated characters
are double-byte blanks, or the first input argument is a binary string
and all the truncated bytes are hexadecimal zeroes.

NoteSyntax alternatives: The CAST
specification should be used to increase the portability of applications
when the length is specified. For more information, see CAST specification.
ExampleThe following function returns a VARBINARY for the string 'This
is a VARBINARY'.   SELECT VARBINARY('This is a VARBINARY')
    FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1

Parent topic: Scalar functions