Reference Modification

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > COBOL Language Structure > Data Reference and Name Scoping > Methods of Data Reference > Methods of Data Reference

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > COBOL Language Structure > Data Reference and Name Scoping > Methods of Data Reference

Reference Modification
Reference modification resembles the use of substringing in other
computer languages. Reference modification defines a data item by
specifying a starting
position and length for the item.

Format

>>-+-data-name-1-----------------------------------------+------>
   '-FUNCTION--function-name-1--+----------------------+-'   
    | .------------. |    
    | V | |    
    '-(----argument-1-+--)-'    

>--(--leftmost-character-position--:--+--------+--)------------><
    '-length-'    

data-name-1
Must refer to a data item whose implicit or explicit
usage is DISPLAY, DISPLAY-1, or NATIONAL. Data-name-1 can be qualified
or subscripted. IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Must not refer to a Boolean
data item. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension IBM ExtensionIBM Extension Must not refer to an item that is defined using the
TYPE clause. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension
function-name-1
Must be an alphanumeric, DBCS, or national function
including its arguments. For more information, see Intrinsic Functions.

argument-1
Argument-1 must be an identifier, literal (other than a figurative
constant), or arithmetic expression.
leftmost-character-position
Must be an arithmetic expression. The evaluation of the leftmost-character-position
must result in a positive nonzero integer that is less than or equal
to the number of characters in the data item referenced by data-name-1
or function-name-1.
length
Must be an arithmetic expression. The sum of leftmost-character-position
and length minus the value one must be less than or equal to the number
of characters in the data item referenced by data-name-1 or function-name-1.
If length is omitted, then the length used is equal to the number
of characters in the data item referenced by data-name-1 or function-name-1
plus one minus the leftmost-character-position. The evaluation of
length must result in a positive nonzero integer. Note: If the arithmetic
expression creates a fixed-point non-integer, truncation occurs, resulting
in an integer. If the arithmetic expression creates a floating-point
non-integer, rounding occurs, resulting in an integer.

IBM ExtensionIBM Extension For DBCS or national data items, position and length refer
to the number of double byte characters. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension

Reference modification is generally allowed anywhere
an identifier referencing an alphanumeric, DBCS, or national data
item is allowed.
IBM ExtensionIBM Extension A data
item of class date-time cannot be reference modified. End of IBM Extension
End of IBM Extension Each character of a data item referenced by data-name-1 or function-name-1
is assigned an ordinal number incrementing by one from the left-most
position to the right-most position. The left-most position is assigned
the ordinal number of one. If the data description entry for data-name-1
contains a SIGN IS SEPARATE clause, the sign position is assigned
an ordinal number within that data item.
Reference modification creates a unique data item which is a subset
of the data item referenced by data-name-1 or by function-name-1 and
its arguments. This unique data item is considered an elementary item
without the JUSTIFIED clause.
When data-name-1 is reference-modified, the unique data item has
the same class and category as that defined for the data item referenced
by data-name-1; however, if the category of data-name-1 is numeric,
numeric-edited, alphanumeric-edited, or external floating-point, the
unique data item has the class and category alphanumeric.
When a function is reference-modified, the unique data
item has the class and category of alphanumeric, DBCS, or national
depending on the function arguments.
If length is not specified, the unique data item created extends
from and includes the character identified by the leftmost-character
position up to and including the right-most character of the data
item referenced by data-name-1 or function-name-1.
Related Information: Evaluation of Operands
Range Errors
Restrictions on Reference Modification
Reference Modification Example.

Evaluation of Operands

Reference Modification Example

Range Errors

Restrictions on Reference Modification

Parent topic: Methods of Data Reference