INITIAL Clause

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Identification Division > PROGRAM-ID Paragraph > PROGRAM-ID Paragraph

IBM i programming resources > ILE COBOL > ILE COBOL Language Reference > Identification Division > PROGRAM-ID Paragraph

INITIAL Clause
Specifies that when program-name is called, program-name and any programs
contained within it are set to their initial state. (All working storage items
are reset to their initial values and all INTERNAL files are closed.)
A program is set to its initial state:
The first time the program is called in a run unit
Every time the program is called, if it possesses the INITIAL attribute
The first time the program is called after the execution of a CANCEL statement
referencing the program or a CANCEL statement referencing a program that directly
or indirectly contains the program
The first time the program is called after the execution of a CALL statement
referencing a program that possesses the INITIAL attribute, and that directly
or indirectly contains the program.
For example, if program A calls program
B, and program B has the INITIAL attribute and also contains program C, program
C will be set to its initial state the first time that it is called after
A called B.

When a program is set to its initial state, the following occur:
The program's internal data contained in the Working-Storage and Local-Storage sections are initialized. If a VALUE clause is used
in the description of the data item, the data item is initialized to the defined
value. If a VALUE clause is not associated with a data item, the initial value
of the data item depends on whether the *STDINZ, *STDINZHEX00 or the *NOSTDINZ
option is specified on the CRTCBLMOD or CRTBNDCBL command.
Files with internal file connectors associated with the program are not
in the open mode.
The control mechanisms for all PERFORM statements contained in the program
are set to their initial states.
The altered GO TO statements contained in the program are set to their
initial state.

The INITIAL clause shall not be specified if any program
that directly or indirectly contains this program is a recursive program.

Parent topic: PROGRAM-ID Paragraph