ROLLBACK

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

ROLLBACK
The ROLLBACK statement is used to back out changes.
The ROLLBACK statement can be used to either:
End a unit of work and back out all the relational database changes
that were made by that unit of work. If relational databases are the
only recoverable resources used by the application process, ROLLBACK
also ends the unit of work.
Back out only the changes made after a savepoint was set within
the unit of work without ending the unit of work. Rolling back to
a savepoint enables selected changes to be undone.

InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared.
ROLLBACK
is not allowed in a trigger if the trigger program and the triggering
program run under the same commitment definition. ROLLBACK is not
allowed in a procedure if the procedure is called on a Distributed
Unit of Work connection to a remote application server or if the procedure
is defined as ATOMIC. ROLLBACK is not allowed in a function.
AuthorizationNone required.
SyntaxROLLBACKWORKHOLDTO SAVEPOINTsavepoint-name
DescriptionWhen ROLLBACK is used without
the TO SAVEPOINT clause, the unit of work in which it is executed
is ended. All changes made by SQL schema statements and SQL data change
statements during the unit of work are backed out. For more information
see Statements.
The generation of identity values is not under transaction
control. Values generated and consumed by inserting rows into a table
that has an identity column are independent of executing the ROLLBACK
statement. Also, executing the ROLLBACK statement does not affect
the IDENTITY_VAL_LOCAL function.
Special registers are not under transaction control. Executing
a ROLLBACK statement does not affect special registers.
Sequences are not under transaction control. Executing
a ROLLBACK statement does not affect the current value generated and
consumed by executing a NEXT VALUE expression.
Global variables are not under transaction
control. Executing a ROLLBACK statement does not affect the value
of any instantiated global variable.
The impact of ROLLBACK or ROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT on the
contents of a declared temporary table is determined by the setting
of the ON ROLLBACK clause of the DECLARE GLOBAL TEMPORARY TABLE statement.
WORK
ROLLBACK
WORK has the same effect as ROLLBACK.
HOLD
Specifies
a hold on resources. If specified, currently open cursors are not
closed cursors whether they are declared with a HOLD option or not.
All resources acquired during the unit of work, except locks on the
rows of tables, are held. Locks on specific rows implicitly acquired
during the unit of work, however, are released. At the end of a
ROLLBACK HOLD, the cursor position is the same as it was at the start
of the unit of work, unless
ALWBLK(*ALLREAD) was specified when the program or routine that
contains the cursor was created
ALWBLK(*READ) and ALWCPYDTA(*OPTIMIZE) were specified when the
program or routine that contains the cursor was created

TO SAVEPOINT
Specifies that the unit of work is not to be ended and that only
a partial rollback (to a savepoint) is to be performed. If a savepoint
name is not specified, rollback is to the last active savepoint. For
example, if in a unit of work, savepoints A, B, and C are set in that
order and then C is released, ROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT causes a rollback
to savepoint B. If no savepoint is active, an error is returned. savepoint-name
Identifies the savepoint to which to roll back. The name must
identify a savepoint that exists at the current server.

After a successful ROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT, the
savepoint continues to exist.
All database changes (including
changes made to declared temporary tables that were declared with
the ON ROLLBACK PRESERVE ROWS clause) that were made after the savepoint
was set are backed out. All locks and LOB locators are retained.
The
impact on cursors resulting from a ROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT depends on
the statements within the savepoint:
If the savepoint contains SQL schema statements on which a cursor
is dependent, the cursor is closed. Attempts to use such a cursor
after a ROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT results in an error.
Otherwise, the cursor is not affected by the ROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT
(it remains open and positioned).

Any savepoints at the current server that are set after the
one to which rollback is performed are released. The savepoint to
which rollback is performed is not released.

NotesRecommended
coding practices: Code an explicit COMMIT or ROLLBACK statement
at the end of an application process. Either an implicit commit or
rollback operation will be performed at the end of an application
process depending on the application environment. Thus, a portable
application should explicitly execute a COMMIT or ROLLBACK before
execution ends in those environments where explicit COMMIT or ROLLBACK
is permitted.
Other effects of rollback: Rollback without the
TO SAVEPOINT clause and HOLD clause causes the following to occur:
All cursors that were opened during the unit of work are closed
whether they are declared with a HOLD option or not.
All LOB locators, including those that are held, are freed.
All locks acquired under this unit of work's commitment definition
are released.

ROLLBACK has no effect on the state of connections.
Implicit ROLLBACK: The ending of the default activation
group causes an implicit rollback. Thus, an explicit COMMIT or ROLLBACK
statement should be issued before the end of the default activation
group.
A ROLLBACK is automatically performed when:
The default activation group ends without a final COMMIT being
issued.
A failure occurs that prevents the activation group from completing
its work (for example, a power failure). If the unit of work is
in the prepared state because a COMMIT was in progress when the failure
occurred, a rollback is not performed. Instead, resynchronization
of all the connections involved in the unit of work will occur. For
more information, see the Commitment control topic
collection.

A failure occurs that causes a loss of the connection to an application
server (for example, a communications line failure). If the unit
of work is in the prepared state because a COMMIT was in progress
when the failure occurred, a rollback is not performed. Instead, resynchronization
of all the connections involved in the unit of work will occur. For
more information, see the Commitment control topic
collection.

An activation group other than the default activation group ends
abnormally.

Row lock limit: A unit of work may include the
processing of up to and including 4 million rows, including rows retrieved
during a SELECT INTO or FETCH statement, and rows inserted, deleted, or updated as part
of INSERT, DELETE, and UPDATE operations.2
Unaffected statements: The commit and rollback
operations do not affect the DROP SCHEMA statement, and this statement
is not, therefore, allowed if the current isolation level is anything
other than No Commit (NC).
ROLLBACK restrictions: A ROLLBACK statement is
not allowed if commitment control is not active for the activation
group. For information about determining which commitment definition
is used, see the commitment
definition discussion in the COMMIT statement.
A commit
or rollback in a user-defined function in a secondary thread is not
allowed.
ROLLBACK has no effect on the state of connections.
If, within a unit of work, a CLOSE is followed by a ROLLBACK,
all changes made within the unit of work are backed out. The CLOSE
itself is not backed out and the file is not reopened.
ExamplesExample 1: See the Example under
COMMIT for examples using the ROLLBACK statement.
Example 2: After a unit of recovery started, assume
that three savepoints A, B, and C were set and that C was released:
SAVEPOINT A ON ROLLBACK RETAIN CURSORS;
...
SAVEPOINT B ON ROLLBACK RETAIN CURSORS;
....
SAVEPOINT C ON ROLLBACK RETAIN CURSORS;
...
RELEASE SAVEPOINT C

Roll back all database changes only to savepoint A:
ROLLBACK WORK TO SAVEPOINT A

If a savepoint name was not specified (that is, ROLLBACK
WORK TO SAVEPOINT), the rollback would be to the last active savepoint
that was set, which is B.

Parent topic: Statements

1 Unless you specified
COMMIT(*CHG) or COMMIT(*CS), in which case these rows are not included
in this total.2 This limit also includes:
Any rows accessed or changed through files opened under commitment
control through high-level language file processing
Any rows deleted, updated, or inserted as a result of a trigger
or CASCADE, SET NULL, or SET DEFAULT referential integrity delete
rule.