Objects and libraries

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Control language

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language

Objects and libraries
Tasks and concepts specific to objects and libraries include performing
functions on objects, creating libraries, and specifying object authority.
An object is a named storage space that consists of a set
of characteristics that describes the object and, in some cases, data. An
object is anything that exists in and occupies space in storage and on which
operations can be performed. The attributes of an object include its name,
type, size, the date it was created, and a description provided by the user
who created the object. The value of an object is the collection of information
stored in the object. The value of a program, for example, is the code that
makes up the program. The value of a file is the collection of records that
makes up the file. The concept of an object provides a term that can be used
to refer to a number of different items that can be stored in the system,
regardless of what the items are.Note: Objects can reside in both libraries
and directories. (Previously, an object could reside only in a library.) This
topic contains information only about objects residing in libraries.

Objects
An object is a named storage space
that consists of a set of characteristics that describes the object and, in
some cases, data. An object is anything that exists in and occupies space
in storage and on which operations can be performed.
Libraries
On the i5/OS® operating
system, objects are grouped in special objects called libraries.
Using libraries
A library is an object used to group related objects
and to find objects by name. Thus, a library is a directory to a group of
objects.
Changing national language versions
The i5/OS licensed
program supports different national languages on the same system. This allows
information in one national language to be presented to one user while information
in a different national language is presented to another user.
Describing objects
Whenever you create an object, you can describe
the object in a 50-character field on the TEXT parameter of a
create command.
Displaying object descriptions
The Display Object Description (DSPOBJD) or Work
with Objects (WRKOBJ) command displays descriptions of objects.
Retrieving object descriptions
The Retrieve Object Description
(RTVOBJD) command returns the descriptions of a specific
object to a CL program or procedure.
Creation information for objects
Information about the creator of an object and the system on which
it is created is saved in the object description when an object is created.
Detecting unused objects on the system
Information provided in the object description can help
you detect and manage unused objects on the system.
Moving objects from one library to another
The Move Object (MOVOBJ) command moves
objects between libraries.
Creating duplicate objects
The Create Duplicate Object (CRTDUPOBJ) command
creates a copy of an existing object.
Renaming objects
The Rename Object (RNMOBJ) command renames
objects. You can rename an object only if you have object management
authority for the object and update and execute authority for the
library containing the object.
Object compression or decompression
The Compress Object (CPROBJ) command
compresses selected objects in order to save disk space on the system. The Decompress
Object (DCPOBJ) command decompresses objects that have been compressed.
Deleting objects
To delete an object, you can use the Delete
Object (DLTOBJ) command, a delete (DLTxxx) command for that type of
object, or the delete option on the Work with Objects display (shown
from the Work with Libraries (WRKLIB) display).
Allocating resources
Objects are allocated on the system to guarantee integrity and
to promote the highest possible degree of concurrency.
Accessing objects in CL programs
To access an object from a CL program, the object must be in the
specified library when the command that refers to it runs.
Working with files in CL programs or procedures
Two types of files are supported in CL procedures and programs:
display files and database files.

Parent topic: Control language

Related concepts
i5/OS objects

Related tasks
Data area locking and allocation

Related information
Integrated fie system