INVITE (Invite) keyword for ICF files

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS Reference: ICF Files > DDS keyword entries for ICF files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS Reference: ICF Files > DDS keyword entries for ICF files (positions 45 through 80)

INVITE (Invite) keyword for ICF files

You can use this file- or record-level
keyword to invite the program device for a later read operation.

To send an invite request to the program device, your program
issues a write operation to that program device with the INVITE keyword in
effect.
The INVITE keyword provides some performance
improvement if your application program is doing interactive processing with
the program device. Normally, a read request is sent to a device when your
program issues an input operation. However, the INVITE keyword allows you
to request the read operation when you issue the output operation. After the
output operation is completed, your program can do other processing while
the invited program device is sending data and the IBM® i program
processes the received data. This might improve the performance of your program.
When your application program is ready to process the data, it issues an
input operation.
This keyword has no parameters.
The INVITE keyword
is ignored at run time when EOS, RSPCONFIRM, or DETACH is in effect. These
keywords must have option indicators when they apply to a record for which
the INVITE keyword applies. If an EOS, RSPCONFIRM, or DETACH keyword with
no option indicator applies to a record for which INVITE applies, an error
message is issued and the INVITE keyword is ignored at creation time.
You
cannot specify INVITE with the TIMER keyword.
Option indicators are
valid for this keyword.
The INVITE keyword cannot be specified at both
the file- and record-level.

Example The following example shows how to specify
the INVITE keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A 01 INVITE
00020A R RCD1
00030A FLD1 10
00040A FLD2 5
AThe INVITE keyword is in effect only when option indicator
01 is set on.