Tokens

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Language elements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements

Tokens
The basic syntactical units of the language are called tokens.
A token consists of one or more characters, excluding blanks, control
characters, and characters within a string constant or delimited identifier.
(These terms are defined later.)
Tokens are classified as ordinary or delimiter tokens:
An ordinary token is a numeric constant, an ordinary identifier,
a host identifier, or a keyword. Examples
1 .1 +2 SELECT E 3

A delimiter token is a string constant, a delimited identifier,
an operator symbol, or any of the special characters shown in the
syntax diagrams. A question mark (?) is also a delimiter token when
it serves as a parameter marker, as explained under PREPARE. Examples
, 'Myst Island' "fld1" = .

Spaces:A space is a sequence of
one or more blank characters.
Control Characters:A control character is
a special character that is used for string alignment. The following
table contains the control characters that are handled by the database
manager:
Table 1. Control CharactersControl Character
EBCDIC Hex Value
Unicode Graphic Hex Value

Tab
05
U+0009

Form Feed
0C
U+000C

Carriage Return
0D
U+000D

New Line
15
U+0085

Line Feed (New line)
25
U+000A

DBCS Space
—
U+3000

Tokens, other than string constants and certain delimited
identifiers, must not include a control character or space. A control
character or space can follow a token. A delimiter token, a control
character, or a space must follow every ordinary token. If
the syntax does not allow a delimiter token to follow an ordinary
token, then a control character or a space must follow that ordinary
token. The following examples illustrate the rule that is stated in
this paragraph.
Here are some examples of combinations of the above ordinary
tokens that, in effect, change the tokens:
1.1 .1+2 SELECTE .1E E3 SELECT1

This demonstrates why ordinary tokens must be followed
by a delimiter token or a space.
Here are some examples of combinations of the above ordinary
tokens and the above delimiter tokens that, in effect, change the
tokens:
1. .3

The period (.) is a delimiter token when it is used as
a separator in the qualification of names. Here the dot is used in
combination with an ordinary token of a numeric constant. Thus, the
syntax does not allow an ordinary token to be followed by a delimiter
token. Instead, the ordinary token must be followed by a space.
If the decimal point has been defined to be the comma,
as described in Decimal point, the comma is
interpreted as a decimal point in numeric constants. Here are some
examples of these numeric constants:
1,2 ,1 1, 1,e1

If '1,2' and '1,e1' are meant to be two items, both the
ordinary token (1) and the delimiter token (,) must be followed by
a space, to prevent the comma from being interpreted as a decimal
point. Although the comma is usually a delimiter token, the comma
is part of the number when it is interpreted as a decimal point. Therefore,
the syntax does not allow an ordinary token (1) to be followed by
a delimiter token (,). Instead, an ordinary token must be followed
by a space.
Comments:Dynamic SQL statements can include
SQL comments. Static SQL statements can include host language comments
or SQL comments. Comments may be specified wherever a space may be
specified, except within a delimiter token or between the keywords
EXEC and SQL. In Java™, SQL comments
are not allowed within embedded Java expressions.
There are two types of SQL comments:
simple comments
Simple comments are introduced by two consecutive hyphens (--).
Simple comments cannot continue past the end of the line. For more
information, see SQL comments.
bracketed comments
Bracketed comments are introduced by /* and end with */. A bracketed
comment can continue past the end of the line. For more information,
see SQL comments.

Uppercase and Lowercase:Any token in an
SQL statement may include lowercase letters, but a lowercase letter
in an ordinary token is folded to uppercase, except for variables
in the C and Java languages,
which have case-sensitive identifiers. Delimiter tokens are never
folded to uppercase. Thus, the statement:
select * from EMP where lastname = 'Smith';

is equivalent, after folding, to:
SELECT * FROM EMP WHERE LASTNAME = 'Smith';

Parent topic: Language elements