Application processes, concurrency, and recovery

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Concepts > Concepts

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Concepts

Application processes, concurrency, and recovery
All SQL programs execute as part of an application process.
In the IBM® i operating
system, an application process is called a job. In the case of ODBC,
JDBC, OLE DB, .NET, and DRDA®,
the application process ends when the connection ends even though
the job they are using does not end and may be reused.
An application process is made up of one or more activation groups.
Each activation group involves the execution of one or more programs.
Programs run under a non-default activation group or the default activation
group. All programs except those created by ILE compilers run under
the default activation group. For example, LANGUAGE JAVA external
functions run under the default activation group.
For more information about activation groups, see the book ILE Concepts.
An application process
that uses commitment control can run with one or more commitment definitions.
A commitment definition provides a means to scope commitment control
at an activation group level or at a job level. At any given time,
an activation group that uses commitment control is associated with
only one of the commitment definitions.
A commitment definition can be explicitly started through the Start
Commitment Control (STRCMTCTL) command. If not already started, a
commitment definition is implicitly started when the first SQL statement
is executed under an isolation level different than COMMIT(*NONE).
More than one activation group can share a job commitment definition.
Figure 1 shows the relationship
of an application process, the activation groups in that application
process, and the commitment definitions. Activation groups A and B
run with commitment control scoped to the activation group. These
activation groups have their own commitment definitions. Activation
group C does not run with any commitment control and does not have
a commitment definition.
Figure 1. Activation Groups without Job Commitment Definition
Figure 2 shows an application process,
the activation groups in that application process, and the commitment
definitions. Some of the activation groups are running with the job
commitment definition. Activation groups A and B are running under
the job commitment definition. Any commit or rollback operation in
activation group A or B affects both because the commitment control
is scoped to the same commitment definition. Activation group C in
this example has a separate commitment definition. Commit and rollback
operations performed in this activation group only affect operations
within C.
Figure 2. Activation Groups with Job Commitment Definition
For more information about commitment definitions, see the Commitment
control topic.

Locking, commit, and rollback
Application processes and activation groups that use different
commitment definitions can request access to the same data at the
same time. Locking is used to maintain data integrity under
such conditions. Locking prevents such things as two application processes
updating the same row of data simultaneously.
Unit of work
A unit of work (also known as a transaction, logical
unit of work, or unit of recovery) is a recoverable sequence of
operations. Each commitment definition involves the execution of one or more
units of work. At any given time, a commitment definition has a single unit
of work.
Rolling back work
The database manager can back out all changes made in a unit of
work or only selected changes. Only backing out all changes results in a point
of consistency.
Threads
In the IBM i operating
system, an application process can also consist of one or more threads.
By default, a thread shares the same commitment definitions and locks
as the other threads in the job. Thus, each thread can operate on
the same unit of work so that when one thread commits or rolls back,
it can commit or rollback all changes performed by all threads. This
type of processing is useful if multiple threads are cooperating to
perform a single task in parallel.

Parent topic: Concepts