REPLACE parameter

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters > Commonly used parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters

REPLACE parameter
The replace (REPLACE) parameter is used on create commands. It
specifies that the existing object, if one exists, is replaced by the object
of the same name, library, and object type that is being created.
The user of the new object is granted the same authority as for
the object being replaced. If the object being replaced is secured by an authorization
list, then the new object is secured by the same authorization list. The public
authority of the new object is the same as the public authority of the replaced
object. The AUT parameter from the create command is ignored. All private
authorities from the replaced object are copied to the new object. The owner
of the new object is not copied from the replaced object. The owner of the
new object is the creator of the new object or the creator's group profile.
Some objects such as panel groups, display files, and menus cannot be replaced
if they are in use by the current job or another job.
If the object
being created is a program or service program, then the user profile (USRPRF
parameter) value from the replaced program is used. The user profile (USRPRF
parameter) value from the Create Program (CRTPGM) or Create
Service Program (CRTSRVPGM) command is ignored. If the value of
the user profile (USRPRF parameter) of the program or service program being
replaced is *OWNER, then only the current owner of the program or service
program being replaced can create the new program or service program that
replaces the existing program or service program. If the owner of the existing
object and the object being created do not match, the object is not created
and message CPF2146 is sent.
If the object being created is a program
or service program, then the use adopted authority (USEADPAUT) value from
the replaced program or service program is used as long as the user creating
the object can create programs/service programs with the USEADPAUT(*YES) attribute.
The QUSEADPAUT system value determines whether users can create programs or
service programs to use adopted authority. For example, if the existing object
being replaced has USEADPAUT(*YES) and you do not have authority to create
a program or service program that uses adopted authority, the program or service
program created will have USEADPAUT(*NO). In this case, the USEADPAUT value
was not copied. If you have authority to create programs or service programs
that use adopted authority, the created program or service program will have
the same USEADPAUT value as the program or service program being replaced.
An informational message is sent which indicates whether the USEADPAUT value
was copied to the object being replaced.
If the object being created
is a file, and the default, or *YES, is specified on the REPLACE parameter,
an existing device file other than save file and a DDM file with the same
qualified name will be replaced by the new file. For example, an existing
display file can be replaced by a new printer file, tape file, and so on.
Object
management (*OBJMGT), object existence (*OBJEXIST), and read (*READ) authorities
are required for the existing object to allow replacement of the existing
object with a new object.
The existing object is renamed and moved to
library QRPLOBJ or library QRPLxxxxx if the object resides on an Independent
ASP (where 'xxxxx' is the number of the primary ASP of the ASP group) when
the creation of the new object is successful. The replaced object is renamed
with a Q appended to a time stamp and moved to library QRPLOBJ or library
QRPLxxxxx if the object resides on an Independent ASP. If the existing object
could not be moved to the QRPLOBJ library because QRPLOBJ was locked by another
job, for example, the existing object will be moved to the QTEMP library for
the job. If the existing object could not be moved to the QTEMP library for
the job, the existing object will be deleted. If the existing object could
not be moved to the QRPLxxxxx library because QRPLxxxxx was locked by another
job, for example, the existing object will be deleted.

RestrictionPrograms can be replaced while they
are being run; however, if the replaced program refers to the program message
queue after the renaming of the replaced program to the Qtimestamp name, the
program fails and an error message is sent stating that the program message
queue is not found.
A database file, physical or logical, and a save
file cannot be replaced by any file.
Library QRPLOBJ is cleared when
an initial program load (IPL) of the system is done. Library QRPLxxxxx is
cleared when the primary ASP of the ASP group is varied on.

Values allowed*YES
The system replaces the existing object with the new object being created
that has the same name, library, and object type.
*NO
The system does not replace the existing object that has the same name,
library, and object type with the object being created.

Parent topic: Commonly used parameters