Defining parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands > Defining a command > Defining a command

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands > Defining a command

Defining parameters
To define a parameter, you must use the PARM statement.
You can define as many as 99 parameters for each command.
On
the PARM statement, you specify the following:
Name of the keyword for the parameter
Whether the parameter is a key parameter
Type of parameter value that can be passed
Length of the value
If needed, the default value for the parameter.

In addition, you must consider the following information when defining
parameters. (The associated PARM statement parameter is given in parentheses.)

Whether a value is returned by the command processing program (RTNVAL).
If RTNVAL (*YES) is specified, a return variable must be coded on the command
when it is called, if you want to have the value returned. If no variable
is specified for a RTNVAL(*YES) parameter, a null pointer is passed to the
command processing program.
Whether the parameter is not to appear on the prompt to the user but is
to be passed to the command processing program as a constant (CONSTANT).
Whether the parameter is restricted (RSTD) to specific values (specified
on the VALUES, SPCVAL, or SNGVAL parameter) or can include any value that
matches the parameter type, length, value range, and a specified relationship.
What the specific valid parameter values are (VALUES, SPCVAL, and SNGVAL).
What tests should be performed on the parameter value to determine its
validity (REL and RANGE).
Whether the parameter is optional or required (MIN).
How many values can be specified for a parameter that requires a simple
list (MIN and MAX).
Whether unprintable data (any character with a value of hexadecimal 00 through 3F or FF can
be entered for the parameter value (ALWUNPRT).
Whether a variable name can be entered for the parameter value (ALWVAR).
Whether the value is a program name (PGM).
Whether the value is a data area name (DTAARA).
Whether the value is a file name (FILE).
Whether the value must be the exact length specified (FULL).
Whether the length of the value should be given with the
value (VARY).
Whether expressions can be specified for a parameter value (EXPR).
Whether attribute information should be given about the value passed for
the parameter (PASSATR).
Whether to pass a value to the command processing program or validity
checking program if the parameter being defined is not specified (PASSVAL).
Whether the case value is preserved or the case value is converted to
uppercase (CASE).
Whether list within list displacements (LISTDSPL) are 2-byte or 4-byte
binary values.
What the message identifier is or what the prompt text for the parameter
is (PROMPT).
What valid values are shown in the possible choices field on the prompt
display (CHOICE).
Whether the choice values are provided by a program (CHOICEPGM).
Whether prompting for a parameter is controlled by another parameter (PMTCTL).
Whether values for a PMTCTL statement are provided by a program (for parameters
referred to in CTL keywords) (PMTCTLPGM).
Whether the value is to be hidden in the job log or hidden when the command
is being prompted (DSPINPUT).

Naming the keyword for the parameter
The name of the keyword that you choose for a
parameter should be descriptive of the information that is requested in the
parameter value.
Parameter types
Different types of parameters are used for processing
basic commands and IBM-supplied commands.
Length of parameter value
The length (LEN) parameter is used to specify
the length of a parameter.
Default values
If you are defining an optional parameter, you can define a value
on the DFT parameter to be used if the user does not enter the parameter value
on the command.
Example: Defining a parameter
This example shows how to define a parameter used in calling an
application.

Parent topic: Defining a command

Related tasks
Using CL or other HLLs for simple lists
Using CL or other HLLs for mixed lists
Defining a qualified name
Using REXX for a qualified name