Expressions in CL commands

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > Control language elements > Control language elements

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > Control language elements

Expressions in CL commands
A character string expression can be used for
any parameter, element, or qualifier that is defined with EXPR(*YES) in the
command definition object.
Any expression can be used as a single parameter in the Change
Variable (CHGVAR) and If (IF) commands. An expression
in its simple form is a single constant, a variable, or a built-in function.
An expression typically contains two operands and an operator that indicates
how the expression is to be evaluated. Two or more expressions can be combined
to make a complex expression.
The following types of expressions are
supported in CL programs:
Arithmetic (&VAR + 15)
Character string (SIX || TEEN)
Relational (&VAR > 15)
Logical (&VAR & &TEST)

A complex expression contains multiple operands, operators that indicate
what operation is performed on the operands, and parentheses to group them.
Only one operator is allowed between operands, except for the + and - signs
when they immediately precede a decimal value (as a signed value), and the
*NOT operator when it is used in a logical expression.No complex expression
can have more than five nested levels of parentheses, including the outermost
(required) level.
Arithmetic and character string expressions can be
used together in a complex expression if they are used with relational and
logical operators; for example: (A=B&(1+2)=3). A pair
of arithmetic expressions or a pair of character string expressions can be
compared within a relational expression. Also, relational expressions can
be used within a logical expression

Arithmetic expressions
The operands in an arithmetic expression must be decimal constants,
decimal, or integer CL variables.
Character string expressions
The operands in a character string expression must be quoted or
unquoted character strings, character variables, or the substring (%SUBSTRING
or %SST) built-in function.
Relational expressions
The operands in a relational expression can be
arithmetic or character string expressions. They can also be logical constants
and logical variables.
Logical expressions
The operands in a logical expression consist
of relational expressions, logical variables, or constants that are separated
by logical operators.
Operators in expressions
Operators are used in expressions to indicate an action
to be performed on the operands in the expression or the relationship between
the operands.
Priority of operators when evaluating expressions
When multiple operators occur in an expression, the expression
is evaluated in a specific order depending upon the operators in the expression.

Parent topic: Control language elements

Related reference
Expressions