Using CL or other HLLs for mixed lists

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands > Defining lists for parameters > Defining a mixed list > Defining a mixed list

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL programming > Defining and documenting commands > Defining commands > Defining lists for parameters > Defining a mixed list

Using CL or other HLLs for mixed lists
When a command is run using CL or another high-level language (HLL),
the elements in a mixed list are passed to the command processing program
in this format.
The number of values in the
mixed list is passed as a binary value of length 2. This value always indicates
how many values have been defined for the mixed list, not how many were actually
entered on the command. This value may be 1 if the SNGVAL parameter is entered
or is passed as the default value. If the user does not enter a value for
an element, a default value is passed. The elements are passed by their types
just as single parameter values are passed. For example, if, in the previous
example the user enters a comparison value of QCMDI for the CMPVAL parameter,
but does not enter a value for the starting position, whose default value
is 1, the following is passed.
The data QCMDI is passed
as an 80-character value that is left-adjusted and padded with blanks. The
number of elements is sent as a binary value of length 2.
When the display
station user enters a single value or when a single value is the default for
a mixed list, the value is passed as the first element in the list. For example,
if the display station user enters *ANY as a single value for the parameter,
the following is passed.
*ANY is passed as an 80-character
value that is left-adjusted and padded with blanks.
Mixed lists can
be processed in CL programs. Unlike simple lists, the binary value does not
need to be tested to determine how many values are in the list because this
value is always the same for a given mixed list unless the SNGVAL parameter
was passed to the command processing program. In this case, the value is
1. If the command is entered with a single value for the parameter, only
that one value is passed. To process the mixed list in a CL program or procedure,
you must use the substring built-in function.
In one case, only a binary
value of 0000 is passed as the number of values for a mixed list. If no default
value is defined on the PARM statement for an optional parameter and the first
value of the list is required (MIN(1)), then the parameter itself is not required;
but if any element is specified the first element is required. In this case,
if the command is entered without specifying a value for the parameter, the
following is passed.
An example of such a
parameter is:
PARM KWD(KWD1) TYPE(E1) MIN(0)
E1: ELEM TYPE(*CHAR) LEN(10) MIN(1)
ELEM TYPE(*CHAR) LEN(2) MIN(0)
If this parameter is to be processed by a CL program or procedure,
the parameter value can be received into a 14-character CL variable. The first
2 characters can be compared to either of the following:
a 2-character variable initialized to hexadecimal 0000 using the %SUBSTRING
function.
a decimal 0 using the %BINARY built-in function.

Parent topic: Defining a mixed list

Related concepts
CL programming

Related tasks
Defining parameters