CONNECT (type 2)

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

CONNECT (type 2)
The CONNECT (type 2) statement connects an activation group
within an application process to the identified application server
using the rules for application directed distributed unit of work.
This server is then the current server for the activation group. This
type of CONNECT statement is used if RDBCNNMTH(*DUW) was specified
on the CRTSQLxxx command.
Differences between the two types of statements
are described in CONNECT (type 1) and CONNECT (type 2) differences. Refer to Application-directed distributed unit of work for more information about connection
states.
InvocationThis statement can only be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that cannot be dynamically prepared. It must not be specified
in Java™ or REXX.
CONNECT is not allowed in a trigger or function.
AuthorizationThe privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include communications-level
security. (See the section about security in the Distributed Database Programming topic
collection.)
If the application server is DB2® for
i, the profile ID of
the person issuing the statement must also be a valid user profile
on the application server system, UNLESS:
USER is specified. If USER is specified, the USER clause must
specify a valid user profile on the application server system.
TCP/IP is used with a server authorization entry for the application
server. If this is the case, the server authorization entry must specify
a valid user profile on the application server system.

If a global variable is referenced in a statement,
the privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement must
include at least one of the following:
For the global variable identified in the statement, The READ privilege on the global variable, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the global
variable

Database administrator authority

SyntaxCONNECTTOserver-namevariableauthorizationRESETauthorizationUSERauthorization-namevariableUSINGpasswordvariable
Description TO server-name or variable
Identifies the application
server by the specified server name or the server name contained in
the variable. It can be a global variable if it is
qualified with schema name. If a variable is specified: It must be a CHAR or VARCHAR host variable.
It must not be followed by an indicator variable.
The server name must be left-justified within the variable and
must conform to the rules for forming an ordinary identifier.
If the length of the server name is less than the length of the
variable, it must be padded on the right with blanks.
The value of the server name must not contain lowercase characters.

When the CONNECT statement is executed, the specified server
name or the server name contained in the variable must identify an
application server described in the local directory.
Let S denote
the specified server name or the server name contained in the variable.
S must not identify an existing connection of the application process.

USER authorization-name or variable
Identifies the authorization
name that will be used to connect to the application server. It can be a global variable if it is qualified with schema
name.If a variable is specified:
It must be a CHAR or VARCHAR host variable.
It must not be followed by an indicator variable. The authorization
name must be left-justified within the variable and must conform to
the rules of forming an authorization name.
If the length of the authorization name is less than the length
of the variable, it must be padded on the right with blanks.

USING password or variable
Identifies the password
that will be used to connect to the application server. If password
is specified as a literal, it must be a character string. The maximum
length is 128 characters. It must be left justified. The literal form
of the password is not allowed in static SQL or REXX.
If a variable is
specified:
It cannot be a global variable.
It must be a CHAR or VARCHAR host variable.
It must not be followed by an indicator variable.
The password must be left-justified within the variable.
If the length of the password is less than that of the variable,
it must be padded on the right with blanks.

RESET
CONNECT
RESET is equivalent to CONNECT TO x where x is the local
server name.
CONNECT with no operand
This form of the CONNECT statement returns information about the
current server and has no effect on connection states, open cursors,
prepared statements, or locks. The connection information is returned
in the connection information items in the SQL Diagnostics Area (or
the SQLCA). In addition, the DB2_CONNECTION_STATUS connection information
item in the SQL Diagnostics Area (or the SQLERRD(3) field of the SQLCA)
will indicate the status of connection for this unit of work. It will
have one of the following values:
1 - Committable updates can be performed on the connection for
this unit of work.
2 - No committable updates can be performed on the connection
for this unit of work.

NotesSuccessful
connection: If the CONNECT statement is successful:
A connection to application server S is created and placed in
the current and held states. The previous connection, if any, is placed
in the dormant state.
S is placed in the CURRENT SERVER special register.
Information about the application server is placed in the connection-information-items in
the SQL Diagnostics Area.
Information about application server S is also placed in the SQLERRP
and SQLERRD(4) fields of the SQLCA. If the application server is an IBM® relational database product,
the information in the SQLERRP field has the form pppvvrrm,
where: ppp identifies the product as follows:
ARI for DB2 for VM and VSE
DSN for DB2 for z/OS®
QSQ for DB2 for
i
SQL for all other DB2 products

vv is a two-digit version identifier
such as '09'
rr is a two-digit release identifier
such as '01'
m is a one-character modification level
such as '0'

For example, if the application server is Version 9 of DB2 for z/OS, the value of SQLERRP is 'DSN09010'.
The
SQLERRD(4) field of the SQLCA contains values indicating whether application
server S allows committable updates to be performed. Following is
a list of values and their meanings for the SQLERRD(4) field of the
SQLCA on the CONNECT: 1 - committable updates can be performed. Conversation is unprotected. 1
2 - No committable updates can be performed. Conversation is
unprotected.
3 - It is unknown if committable updates can be performed. Conversation
is protected.
4 - It is unknown if committable updates can be performed. Conversation
is unprotected.
5 - It is unknown if committable updates can be performed. The
connection is either a local connection or a connection to an application
requester driver program.

Additional information about the connection is placed in the SQLERRMC
field of the SQLCA. Refer to SQLCA (SQL communication area).

Unsuccessful connection: If the CONNECT statement
is unsuccessful, the connection state of the activation group and
the states of its connections are unchanged.
Implicit connect: Implicit connect will always
send the authorization-name of the application
requester job and will not send passwords. If the authorization-name of
the application server job is different or if a password must be sent,
an explicit connect statement must be used.
When TCP/IP is used for connecting to an RDB, an implicit
connect is not bound by the above restrictions. Use of the ADDSVRAUTE
and other -SVRAUTE commands allows one to specify, for a given user
under which the implicit (or explicit) CONNECT is done, the remote
authorization-name and password to be used in connecting to a given
RDB.
In order for the password to be stored with the ADDSVRAUTE
or CHGSVRAUTE command, the QRETSVRSEC system value must be set to
'1' rather than the default of '0'. When using these commands for DRDA® connection, it is very important
to realize that the value of the RDB name entered into the SERVER
parameter must be in UPPER CASE. For more information, see Example
2 under Type 2 CONNECT.
For more information about implicit connect, refer to SQL Programming.
Once a connection to a relational database for a user profile is established,
the password, if specified, may not be validated again on subsequent
connections to the same relational database with the same user profile.
Revalidation of the password depends on if the conversation is still
active. See Distributed Database Programming for more details.
SET SESSION AUTHORIZATION: If a SET SESSION AUTHORIZATION
statement has been executed in the thread, a CONNECT to the local
server will fail unless prior to the connect statement, the SYSTEM_USER
value is the same as SESSION_USER.
This includes an implicit connect due to invoking a program
that specifies ACTGRP(*NEW).
Examples Example 1: Execute SQL
statements at TOROLAB and SVLLAB. The first CONNECT statement creates
the TOROLAB connection and the second CONNECT statement places it
in the dormant state.
EXEC SQL CONNECT TO TOROLAB;

(execute statements referencing objects at TOROLAB)

EXEC SQL CONNECT TO SVLLAB;

(execute statements referencing objects at SVLLAB)
Example
2: Connect to a remote server specifying a userid and password,
perform work for the user and then connect as another user to perform
further work.
EXEC SQL CONNECT TO SVLLAB USER :AUTHID USING :PASSWORD;

(execute SQL statements accessing data on the server)

EXEC SQL COMMIT;

(set AUTHID and PASSWORD to new values)

EXEC SQL CONNECT TO SVLLAB USER :AUTHID USING :PASSWORD;

(execute SQL statements accessing data on the server)
Example
3: User JOE wants to connect to TOROLAB3 and execute SQL statements
under the user ID ANONYMOUS which has a password of SHIBBOLETH. The
RDB directory entry for TOROLAB3 specifies *IP for the connection
type.
Before running the application, some setup must be done.
This
command will be required to allow server security information to be
retained in the IBM i operating
system, if it has not been previously run:
CHGSYSVAL SYSVAL(QRETSVRSEC) VALUE('1')
This
command adds the required server authorization entry:
ADDSVRAUTE USRPRF(JOE) SERVER(TOROLAB3) USRID(ANONYMOUS) +
PASSWORD(SHIBBOLETH)
This statement, run
under JOE's user profile, will now make the wanted connection:
EXEC SQL CONNECT TO TOROLAB3;
(execute statements referencing objects at TOROLAB3)

Parent topic: Statements