Creating or changing a message queue

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Message queues > Message queues

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > Messages > Message queues

Creating or changing a message queue
To create your own user message queues, use the Create
Message Queue (CRTMSGQ) command. In addition, you can use the Change
Message Queue (CHGMSGQ) command to change attributes of your message
queue. To view the contents of the message queue, use the Display
Messages (DSPMSG) or Work with Messages (WRKMSG) command.
The attributes of a message queue are as follows:
Whether changes to the message queue must be written immediately to the
disk. Writing the changes immediately to the disk ensures that no messages
are lost in cases like a system failure. Note that this will cause a decrease
in system performance.
The method of delivery for messages arriving at a message queue. When
a message queue is created, the method of delivery is defined as hold delivery.
When a display station is signed on, the user's message queue is set to the
mode specified in the user profile. The types of delivery you can specify
on the CHGMSGQ command are: Break delivery. A job is interrupted and a program is called to deliver
the message. If a user program is not specified on the CHGMSGQ command
that requests break delivery, or if *SAME is specified, the DSPMSG command
automatically displays the message. Break messages for a job can be controlled
with the BRKMSG parameter on the Change Job (CHGJOB) command.
Notify delivery. A display station user is notified by means of the attention
light or audible alarm (or by both) that a message is on the queue. The display
station user can view the message by using the DSPMSG or WRKMSG command.
Hold delivery. The message queue holds the messages until the display
station user requests them with the DSPMSG or WRKMSG command.
Default delivery. All messages are ignored, and any messages requiring
a reply are sent the default reply for the message.

How to handle messages for break delivery. Automatically run the DSPMSG command. For an interactive
job, the messages are displayed at the display station if the severity code
is high enough. For a batch job, the messages are listed to a spooled printer
file if the severity code is high enough.
Call a break-handling program to handle the messages. You must use the CHGMSGQ command
to specify the called program and to set the method of delivery to break mode.
You can specify whether other jobs can reply to inquiry messages on the queue
while it is in break mode with a break-handling program.

The severity code for filtering messages for break and notify delivery.
Messages with severity equal to or greater than the minimum severity code
specified are displayed. When the queue is created, the minimum severity
code is set to 00. To change the minimum severity code, you must use the CHGMSGQ command. When
the DSPMSG command is used to display messages on the message
queue, the severity code filter (SEV) parameter can be used to filter the
messages shown. This filter is used rather than the severity filter specified
for the message queue at creation time. To use this filter, specify DSPMSG
SEV(*MSGQ). You can use the DSPMSG command to determine
the current severity code used for filtering break and notify messages. The
code is displayed on the heading line of the message display.

Coded character set identifier (CCSID) associated with the message queue.
Messages sent to this queue are converted to this CCSID. No conversions
occur if the message queue CCSID is 65534 or 65535. If the message queue CCSID
is 65534, each message contains its own CCSID which is established by the
sender.
Allow alerts for standard message queues. Allow alerts specifies if the
queue being created allows alerts to be generated from alert messages that
are sent to it.
Action to take when the message queue becomes full. Send CPF2460 (Message queue cannot be extended) to the program or user
that sends a message to the full queue.
Wrap the queue. Wrapping will remove messages on the queue to make space
for a new message that is sent to the queue.

You cannot change this attribute for message queue QHST; QHST sends CPF2460
when it is full. IBM ships QSYSOPR with this attribute set to wrap.

Note: When a workstation device description is created, the system establishes
a message queue for the device to receive all action messages for the device.
For workstation printers, tape drives, and APPC devices, the MSGQ parameter
can be used to specify a message queue when creating a device description.
If no message queue is specified for these devices, the default, QSYSOPR,
is used as the message queue. All other devices are assigned to the QSYSOPR
message queue when they are created.
The message queue defined in
your user profile is known as a user message queue. When you sign on the
system using your profile, the user message queue is put into the delivery
mode specified in your user profile.
If your user message queue is in
break or notify delivery mode while you are signed on a display station and
then you sign on another display station, the user message queue will not
change the delivery mode for the new sign-on. User message queues (along with
workstation message queues and the QSYSOPR message queue) cannot have their
delivery mode changed by a job when the message queue is in break or notify
delivery mode for a different job.
When you sign off the display station,
or the job ends unexpectedly, the user message queue delivery mode is changed
to hold mode, if the delivery mode of the user message queue is break or notify
for this job. The user message queue delivery mode is also changed from break
or notify mode to hold mode when you transfer to a secondary job. You can
do this using the Transfer Secondary Job (TFRSECJOB) command
or by pressing the System Request key and specifying option 1 on the System
Request menu.
After transferring to a secondary job, you sign on using
your user profile. Your user message queue is put into the delivery mode
specified in your user profile. This allows the user message queue to transfer
to the secondary job. You are then able to transfer back and forth between
these two jobs and have your user message queue follow you.
However,
if after transferring to an alternative job, you sign on using a user profile
other than your own, the user message queue for the job from which you transferred
is left in hold delivery mode. The user message queue for the user profile
you signed on with is put in the delivery mode specified in that user profile.
Because of this, your user message queue could be put into break or notify
delivery mode by another user. If another user still has your user message
queue in that delivery mode when you transfer back to the first job, your
user message queue delivery mode cannot be changed back to the original delivery
mode.
The QSYSOPR message queue is the message queue for the system
operator, unless it has been changed. The previous situation can occur for
a system operator as well.

Message queues in independent ASPs
IBM suggests that message queues in independent auxiliary storage
pools (ASPs) should not be put into break mode.
Message queues in break mode
A break-handling program can be called whenever a message of equal
or higher severity than the severity code filter arrives on a message queue
that is in break delivery mode.
Placing a message queue in break mode automatically
By placing a message queue in break mode automatically,
you can monitor the QSYSOPR message queue.

Parent topic: Message queues

Related information
Create Message Queue (CRTMSGQ) command
Change Message Queue (CHGMSGQ) command
Display Message (DSPMSG) command
Work with Message (WRKMSG) command