Positions 23-27 (Record Length)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > File Description Specifications > Traditional File Description Specification Statement > Traditional File Description Specification Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > File Description Specifications > Traditional File Description Specification Statement

Positions 23-27 (Record Length)

Free-Form Syntax

Record-length parameter of the device-type keyword

This entry must be blank if the LIKEFILE keyword is
specified. The Record Length of the parent file is used.

Use positions 23 through 27 to indicate the length of the logical
records contained in a program-described file. The maximum record
size that can be specified is 32766; however, record-size constraints
of any device may override this value. This entry must be blank for
externally described files.

If the file being defined is a record-address file and the record
length specified is 3, it is assumed that each record in the file
consists of a 3-byte binary field for the relative-record numbers
starting at offset 0. If the record length is 4 or greater, each relative-record
number in the record-address file is assumed to be a 4-byte field
starting at offset 1. If the record length is left blank, the actual
record length is retrieved at run time to determine how to handle
the record-address file.

If the file opened at run time has a primary record length of 3,
then 3-byte relative-record numbers (one per record) are assumed;
otherwise, 4-byte relative-record numbers are assumed. This support
can be used to allow ILE RPG programs to use System/36 environment
SORT files as record-address files.

Table 1. Valid Combinations for a Record Address File containing
Relative Record Numbers (RAFRRN)

Record Length
Positions 23-27

RAF Length
Positions 29-33

Type of Support

Blank

Blank

Support determined at run time.

3

3

System/36 support.

> = 4

4

Native support.

Parent topic: Traditional File Description Specification Statement