Position 19 (End of File)

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > File Description Specifications > Traditional File Description Specification Statement > Traditional File Description Specification Statement

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Specifications > File Description Specifications > Traditional File Description Specification Statement

Position 19 (End of File)

Free-Form Syntax

(Not supported for a free-form file
definition)

Entry
Explanation

E

All records from the file must be processed before the program
can end. This entry is not valid for files processed by a record-address
file.
All records from all files which use this option must be
processed before the LR indicator is set on by the RPG cycle to end
the program.

Blank

If position 19 is blank for all files, all records from all
files must be processed before end of program (LR) can occur. If position
19 is not blank for all files, all records from this file may or may
not be processed before end of program occurs in multi-file processing.

Use position 19 to indicate whether the program can end before
all records from the file are processed. An E in position 19 applies
only to input, update, or combined files specified as primary, secondary,
or record-address files.

If the records from all primary and secondary files must be processed,
position 19 must be blank for all files or must contain E's for all
files. For multiple input files, the end-of-program (LR) condition
occurs when all input files for which an E is specified in position
19 have been processed. If position 19 is blank for all files, the
end-of-program condition occurs when all input files have been processed.

When match fields are specified for two or more files and an
E is specified in position 19 for one or more files, the LR indicator
is set on after:

The end-of-file condition occurs for the last file with an E specified
in position 19.

The program has processed all the records in other files that
match the last record processed from the primary file.

The program has processed the records in those files without match
fields up to the next record with non-matching match fields.

When no file or only one file contains match field specifications,
no records of other files are processed after end of file occurs on
all files for which an E is specified in position 19.

Parent topic: Traditional File Description Specification Statement