Parameter values used for testing and debugging

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > CL parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters

Parameter values used for testing and debugging
The operating system includes functions that let a programmer observe
operations performed as a program runs.
Testing functions can be used to locate operations that are not
performing as intended. These functions can be used in either batch or interactive
jobs from a workstation. In either case, the program being observed must
be in the testing environment, called debug mode.
The testing
functions narrow the search for errors that are difficult to find in the CL
source statements. Often, an error is apparent only because the output produced
is not what is expected. To find those errors, you need to be able to stop
the program at a given point (called a breakpoint) and examine variable
information in the program to see if it is correct. You might want to make
changes to those variables before letting the program continue running.
You
do not need to know machine language instructions, nor is there a need to
include special instructions in the program to use the testing functions.
The i5/OS® testing functions
let you:
Stop a running program at any named point in the program's source statements.
Display information about program or procedure variables
at any point where the program or procedure can be stopped. You can also change
the variable information before continuing program or procedure processing.

This section contains expanded descriptions of the program variable,
basing pointer, subscript, and qualified-name parameter values. These values
can be specified on the Add Breakpoint (ADDBKP), Add
Trace (ADDTRC), Change High-Level Language Pointer (CHGHLLPTR), Change
Program Variable (CHGPGMVAR), and Display Program Variable
(DSPPGMVAR) commands.
See the appropriate Integrated Language Environment® (ILE) guide for debugging information with other
ILE languages.

Program-variable description
The program variable must be enclosed in single
quotation marks if it contains special characters. Up to 132 characters can
be specified for a program variable name. This includes any subscripts, embedded
blanks, parentheses, and commas. It does not include the enclosing single
quotation marks when special characters are used.
Basing-pointer description
The basing pointer must be enclosed in single
quotation marks if it contains special characters. Up to 132 characters can
be specified for a basing pointer name. This includes any subscripts, embedded
blanks, parentheses, and commas. It does not include the enclosing single
quotation marks when special characters are used.
Subscript description
An integer number contains from 1 through 15
digits with an optional leading sign (either plus or minus). A decimal point
is not allowed in an integer-number subscript. If a decimal point is specified,
the subscript value is not interpreted as the correct numeric value by the
system, and an error message is returned.
Qualified-name description
Some high-level languages might allow you to
declare more than one variable with the same fully qualified name (although
you generally are not able to refer to these variables in the high-level language
program after they are declared). If you attempt to refer to such a variable
using an i5/OS test facility
command, the system selects one of the variables and uses it for the operation.
No error is reported when a duplicate fully qualified name is selected.

Parent topic: CL parameters

Related tasks
Debugging ILE programs
Debugging original program model programs