TRNTBL (Translation Table) keyword—logical files only

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Keyword entries for physical and logical files (positions 45 through 80)

IBM i programming resources > DDS > DDS for Physical and Logical Files > Keyword entries for physical and logical files (positions 45 through 80)

TRNTBL (Translation Table) keyword—logical files only

You can use this field-level keyword to specify the
name of a translation table to be used when the system passes this field between
the physical file on the PFILE or JFILE keyword and your program.

The field must be a character field and its length cannot be redefined
in the logical file. If the TRNTBL keyword is specified with the CONCAT keyword,
the fields specified on the CONCAT keyword must all be character fields.
The
format of the keyword is: TRNTBL([library-name/]translation-table-name)
The
translation-table-name is a required parameter value; the library-name is
optional. If you do not specify the library-name, the operating system uses
the library list (*LIBL) that is in effect at file creation time.
The
translation-table-name cannot name an ICU table.
This keyword is valid
only for character fields that are input-only (I specified in position 38)
or neither (N specified in position 38) fields.
You cannot specify the
TRNTBL keyword on a hexadecimal field (H in position 35). Do not specify the
TRNTBL keyword on a date, time, or timestamp field (L, T, or Z in position
35).
You can specify as many as 99 different translation tables for
different fields in the same logical file.
Translation occurs when the
field is read from the physical file. Therefore, all functions specified in
the logical file (such as key field sequencing, select/omit processing, and
joining of records) depend on the translated version of the data.
The
TRNTBL keyword changes the data in the records returned from the logical file.
The ALTSEQ keyword changes only the order of the records returned from the
logical file.
The TRNTBL keyword is similar to the CHRID
keyword but differs from the latter as follows:
The TRNTBL keyword names the translation table to be used; the CHRID keyword
does not.

The TRNTBL keyword changes data on input to the program when your program
is reading a logical file. The CHRID keyword changes the data for display
or printing on a specific device. Use the TRNTBL keyword when your program
will use the changed data (for example, in an IF-THEN-ELSE statement or a
COBOL SORT statement). If your program is handling data that comes only from
a logical file, you do not need to specify the CHRID keyword in display or
printer files used by the program.

The TRNTBL keyword is not valid when you specify FILETYPE(*SRC)
on the Create Logical File (CRTLF) command.
Notes:
When you use the TRNTBL keyword, the length of the field in the logical
file must be the same as the length of the corresponding field in the physical
file.

At file creation time, you must have use authority to the translation
table. The translation table is created using the Create Table (CRTTBL) command.

The translation table specified in the TRNTBL keyword is referred to only
when the logical file is created. Therefore, a change to a translation table
does not affect the logical file until the logical file is re-created.

ExampleThe following example shows how to specify
the TRNTBL keyword.
|...+....1....+....2....+....3....+....4....+....5....+....6....+....7....+....8
00010A R RECORD1 PFILE(PF1)
00020A CHAR1 I TRNTBL(LIB1/TBL1)
00030A CHAR2 A I TRNTBL(LIB2/TBL2)
00040A NUM1
00050A NUM2
AField CHAR1 is translated using table TBL1 in library
LIB1. Field CHAR2 is translated using table TBL2 in library LIB2. Field CHAR2
was redefined in the logical file as a character field (A in position 35)
to allow the TRNTBL keyword to be specified. Fields NUM1 and NUM2 are numeric
fields in the physical file PF1 and cannot have the TRNTBL keyword specified
for them.