CREATE TRIGGER

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements > Statements

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Statements

CREATE TRIGGER
The CREATE TRIGGER statement defines a trigger at the current
server.
InvocationThis statement can be embedded
in an application program or issued interactively. It is an executable
statement that can be dynamically prepared.
AuthorizationThe privileges held by the
authorization ID of the statement must include at least one of the
following:
The privilege to create in the schema. For more information, see Privileges necessary
to create in a schema.
Database administrator authority

The privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement
must include at least one of the following:
Each of the following: The ALTER privilege on the table or view on which the trigger
is defined,
The SELECT privilege on the table or view on which the trigger
is defined,
The SELECT privilege on any table or view referenced in the search-condition in
the trigger-action,
The UPDATE privilege on the table on which the trigger is defined,
if the BEFORE UPDATE trigger contains a SET statement that modifies
the NEW correlation variable,
The privileges required to execute each triggered-SQL-statement,
and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the table
or view on which the trigger is defined.

Database administrator authority

If an INSTEAD OF trigger is added to a view that is not inherently
updatable, the *OBJMGT system authority is also required on the view.
In
addition, the privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement
must include at least one of the following:
The following system authorities: *USE on the Add Physical File Trigger (ADDPFTRG) command,
*USE on the Create Program (CRTPGM) command

Database administrator authority

If the SECURED attribute is specified, or the
trigger is secured and OR REPLACE is specified : The authorization ID of the statement must have security administrator authority. See Administrative authority.

If SQL names are specified, and a user profile exists
that has the same name as the library into which the trigger is created,
and the name is different from the authorization ID of the statement,
then the privileges held by the authorization ID of the statement
must include at least one of the following:
*ALLOBJ and *SECADM special authority
Database administrator authority

To replace an existing trigger, the privileges
held by the authorization ID of the statement must include at least
one of the following:
The following system authorities:The system authority of *OBJMGT on the trigger program object
All authorities needed to DROP the trigger

Database administrator authority

For information about the system authorities corresponding
to SQL privileges, see Corresponding
System Authorities When Checking Privileges to a Table or View.
SyntaxCREATEOR
REPLACETRIGGERtrigger-nametrigger-definitionWRAPPEDobfuscated-statement-text
trigger-definitionNO
CASCADEBEFOREAFTERINSTEAD OFtrigger-eventONtable-nameview-nameREFERENCINGOLDROWAScorrelation-nameNEWROWAScorrelation-nameOLD TABLEOLD_TABLEAStable-identifierNEW TABLENEW_TABLEAStable-identifier1FOR EACH STATEMENTFOR EACH ROWMODE DB2SQLMODE DB2ROWtriggered-action
trigger-eventORINSERTDELETEUPDATEOF,column-name2
triggered-actionoption-listSET OPTION-statementWHEN(search-condition)SQL-trigger-bodyoption-listCONCURRENT
ACCESS RESOLUTIONDEFAULTUSE CURRENTLY COMMITTEDUWAIT FOR OUTCOMEWNOT SECUREDSECUREDENABLEDISABLEPROGRAM NAMEexternal-program-name3
SQL-trigger-bodySQL-control-statementfullselectALLOCATE CURSOR-statementALLOCATE DESCRIPTOR-statementALTER FUNCTION-statementALTER MASK-statementALTER PERMISSION-statementALTER PROCEDURE-statementALTER SEQUENCE-statementALTER TABLE-statementASSOCIATE LOCATORS-statementCOMMENT statementCREATE ALIAS-statementCREATE FUNCTION (external scalar)-statementCREATE FUNCTION (external table)-statementCREATE INDEX-statementCREATE MASK-statementCREATE PERMISSION-statementCREATE PROCEDURE (external)-statementCREATE SCHEMA-statementCREATE SEQUENCE-statementCREATE TABLE-statementCREATE TYPE-statementCREATE VIEW-statementDEALLOCATE DESCRIPTOR-statementDECLARE declared temporary table-statementDELETE-statementDESCRIBE-statementDESCRIBE CURSOR-statementDESCRIBE INPUT-statementDESCRIBE PROCEDURE-statementDESCRIBE TABLE-statementDROP-statementEXECUTE IMMEDIATE-statementGET DESCRIPTOR-statementGRANT-statementINSERT-statementLABEL-statementLOCK TABLE-statementMERGE-statementREFRESH TABLE-statementRELEASE-statementRELEASE SAVEPOINT-statementRENAME-statementREVOKE-statementSAVEPOINT-statementSELECT INTO-statementSET CURRENT DEBUG MODE-statementSET CURRENT DECFLOAT ROUNDING MODE-statementSET CURRENT DEGREE-statementSET CURRENT IMPLICIT XMLPARSE OPTION-statementSET CURRENT TEMPORAL SYSTEM_TIME-statementSET DESCRIPTOR-statementSET ENCRYPTION PASSWORD-statementSET PATH-statementSET SCHEMA-statementSET TRANSACTION-statementSET transition-variable-statementTRANSFER OWNERSHIP-statementTRUNCATE-statementUPDATE-statementVALUES INTO-statement
DescriptionOR REPLACE
Specifies
to replace the definition for the trigger if one exists at the current
server. The existing definition is effectively dropped before the
new definition is replaced in the catalog with the exception that
privileges that were granted on the trigger are not affected. This
option is ignored if a definition for the trigger does not exist at
the current server.
trigger-name
Names the trigger. The name, including the implicit or explicit
qualifier, must not be the same as a trigger that already exists at
the current server. QTEMP cannot be used as the trigger-name schema
qualifier.
If SQL names were specified, the trigger will be
created in the schema specified by the implicit or explicit qualifier.
If
system names were specified, the trigger will be created in the schema
that is specified by the qualifier. If not qualified, the trigger
will be created in the same schema as the subject table.
If
the trigger name is not a valid system name, or if a program with
the same name already exists, the database manager will generate a
system name. For information about the rules for generating a name,
see Rules for Table Name Generation.

NO CASCADE
NO CASCADE is allowed for compatibility with other products and
is ignored by DB2® for
i.
BEFORE
Specifies that the trigger is a before trigger. The database
manager executes the triggered-action before it applies any
changes caused by an insert, delete, or update operation on the subject
table. It also specifies that the triggered-action does not
activate other triggers because the triggered-action of a before
trigger cannot contain any updates.BEFORE must not be specified
when a view-name is specified. FOR EACH STATEMENT must not
be specified for a BEFORE trigger.

AFTER
Specifies that the trigger is an after trigger. The database
manager executes the triggered-action after it applies any
changes caused by an insert, delete, or update operation on the subject
table. AFTER must not be specified when view-name is
also specified.
INSTEAD OF
Specifies that the trigger is an instead of trigger. The associated
triggered action replaces the action against the subject view. Only
one INSTEAD OF trigger is allowed for each kind of operation on a
given subject view. The database manager executes the triggered-action instead
of the insert, delete, or update operation on the subject view.INSTEAD
OF must not be specified when table-name is specified. The
WHEN clause must not be specified for an INSTEAD OF trigger. FOR EACH
STATEMENT must not be specified for an INSTEAD OF trigger.

trigger-event
Specifies that the triggered action associated with
the trigger is to be executed whenever one of the events is applied
to the subject table or view. Any combination of the events can be
specified, but each event (INSERT, DELETE, UPDATE) can only be specified
once.INSERT
Specifies that the triggered-action associated
with the trigger is to be executed whenever there is an insert operation
on the subject table.A BEFORE INSERT trigger cannot
be added to a history table.

DELETE
Specifies that the triggered-action associated
with the trigger is to be executed whenever there is a delete operation
on the subject table. A DELETE trigger cannot be added to a table
with a referential constraint of ON DELETE CASCADE.

UPDATE
Specifies that the triggered-action associated
with the trigger is to be executed whenever there is an update operation
on the subject table. An UPDATE trigger event cannot be added to
a table with a referential constraint of ON DELETE SET NULL or ON
DELETE SET DEFAULT.
A BEFORE UPDATE trigger cannot
be added to a history table.
If an explicit column-name list
is not specified, an update operation on any column of the subject
table, including columns that are subsequently added with the ALTER
TABLE statement, activates the triggered-action.
OF column-name, ...
Each column-name specified must be a column of the subject
table, and must appear in the list only once. An update operation
on any of the listed columns activates the triggered-action.
This clause cannot be specified for an INSTEAD OF trigger.

ON table-name
Identifies the subject table of a BEFORE or AFTER trigger definition.
The name must identify a base table that exists at the current server,
but must not identify a catalog table, a table in QTEMP, or a declared
temporary table.
ON view-name
Identifies the subject view of an INSTEAD OF trigger definition.
The name must identify a view that exists at the current server,
but must not identify a catalog view, or a view in QTEMP. The name
must not specify a view that is defined using WITH CHECK OPTION, or
a view on which a WITH CHECK OPTION view has been defined, directly
or indirectly
REFERENCING
Specifies the correlation names for the transition
tables and the table names for the transition tables. Correlation-names identify
a specific row in the set of rows affected by the triggering SQL operation. Table-identifiers identify
the complete set of affected rows. Each row affected by the triggering
SQL operation is available to the triggered-action by qualifying
columns with correlation-names specified as follows: OLD ROW AS correlation-name
Specifies a correlation name that identifies the values in the
row prior to the triggering SQL operation. If the
trigger event is insert, the value for every column in OLD ROW is
the NULL value.
NEW ROW AS correlation-name
Specifies a correlation name which identifies the values in the
row as modified by the triggering SQL operation and any SET statement
in a before trigger that has already executed. If
the trigger event is delete, the value for every column in NEW ROW
is the NULL value.

The complete set of rows affected by the triggering
SQL operation is available to the triggered-action by using
a temporary table name specified as follows: OLD TABLE AS table-identifier
Specifies the name of a temporary table that identifies the values
in the complete set of affected rows prior to the triggering SQL operation.
The OLD TABLE includes the rows that were affected by the trigger
if the current activation of the trigger was caused by statements
in the SQL-trigger-body of a trigger. If the
trigger event is insert, the temporary table is empty.
NEW TABLE AS table-identifier
Specifies the name of a temporary table that identifies the state
of the complete set of affected rows as modified by the triggering
SQL operation and by any SET statement in a before trigger that has
already been executed. If the trigger event is delete,
the temporary table is empty.

Only one OLD and one NEW correlation-name may
be specified for a trigger. Only one OLD_TABLE and one NEW_TABLE table-identifier may
be specified for a trigger. All of the correlation-names and table-identifiers
must be unique from one another.
The OLD correlation-name and
the OLD_TABLE table-identifier are populated only
if the triggering event is either a delete operation or an update
operation. For a delete operation, the OLD correlation-name captures
the values of the columns in the deleted row, and the OLD_TABLE table-identifier captures
the values in the set of deleted rows. For an update operation, OLD correlation-name captures
the values of the columns of a row before the update operation, and
the OLD_TABLE table-identifier captures the values in the set
of updated rows.
The NEW ROW correlation-name and the
NEW TABLE table-identifier are populated only
if the triggering event is either an INSERT operation or an UPDATE
operation. For both operations, the NEW ROW correlation-name captures
the values of the columns in the inserted or updated row, and the
NEW TABLE table-identifier captures the values in the set of
inserted or updated rows. For before triggers, the values of the
updated rows include the changes from any SET statements in the triggered-action of
before triggers.
The OLD ROW and NEW ROW correlation-name variables
cannot be modified in an AFTER trigger or INSTEAD OF trigger.
The
tables below summarizes the allowable combinations of correlation
variables and transition tables.
Granularity: FOR
EACH ROW
MODE
Activation Time
Triggering Operation
Correlation Variables Allowed
Transition Tables Allowed

DB2ROW
BEFORE
DELETE
OLD
NONE

INSERT
NEW

UPDATE
OLD, NEW

AFTER or INSTEAD OF
DELETE
OLD

INSERT
NEW

UPDATE
OLD, NEW

DB2SQL
BEFORE
DELETE
OLD

INSERT
NEW

UPDATE
OLD, NEW

AFTER or INSTEAD OF
DELETE
OLD
OLD TABLE

INSERT
NEW
NEW TABLE

UPDATE
OLD, NEW
OLD TABLE, NEW TABLE

Granularity: FOR EACH STATEMENT
MODE
Activation Time
Triggering Operation
Correlation Variables Allowed
Transition Tables Allowed

DB2SQL
AFTER or INSTEAD OF
DELETE
NONE
OLD TABLE

INSERT
NEW TABLE

UPDATE
OLD TABLE, NEW TABLE

A transition variable that has a character data type inherits
the CCSID of the column of the subject table. During the execution
of the triggered-action, the transition variables are treated
like variables. Therefore, character conversion might occur.
The
temporary transition tables are read-only. They cannot be modified.
The
scope of each correlation-name and each table-identifier is
the entire trigger definition.

FOR EACH ROW
Specifies that the database manager executes the triggered-action for
each row of the subject table that the triggering operation modifies.
If the triggering operation does not modify any rows, the triggered-action is
not executed.
FOR EACH STATEMENT
Specifies that the database manager executes the triggered-action only
once for the triggering operation. Even if the triggering operation
does not modify or delete any rows, the triggered action is still
executed once. FOR EACH STATEMENT cannot be specified for a BEFORE
trigger.
FOR EACH STATEMENT cannot be specified for a MODE
DB2ROW trigger.

MODE DB2SQL
MODE DB2SQL is valid for AFTER triggers. MODE DB2SQL
AFTER triggers are activated after all of the row operations have
occurred.MODE DB2SQL is only valid for BEFORE triggers if a REFERENCING
clause is not specified and the trigger table is not referenced in
the SQL-trigger-body. MODE DB2SQL BEFORE triggers are activated
on each row operation.

MODE DB2ROW
MODE DB2ROW triggers are activated on each row operation. MODE
DB2ROW is valid for both the BEFORE and AFTER activation time.

CONCURRENT ACCESS RESOLUTION
Specifies whether the database manager should wait for data that
is in the process of being updated. DEFAULT is the default.DEFAULT
Specifies that the concurrent access resolution is not explicitly
set for this trigger. The value that is in effect when the trigger
program is invoked will be used.
WAIT FOR OUTCOME
Specifies that the database manager is to wait for the commit
or rollback of data in the process of being updated.
USE CURRENTLY COMMITTED
Specifies that the database manager is to use the currently committed
version of the data when encountering data that is in the process
of being updated.
When the lock contention is between a read transaction and a delete
or update transaction, the clause is applicable to scans with isolation
level CS (but not for CS KEEP LOCKS).

SECURED or NOT SECURED
Specifies whether the trigger is considered secure for row access
control and column access control. NOT SECURED is the default.SECURED
Specifies that the trigger is considered secure for row access
control and column access control.
SECURED must be specified for a trigger whose subject table is
using row access control or column access control. SECURED must also
be specified for a trigger that is created for a view and one or more
of the underlying tables in the view definition is using row access
control or column access control.
NOT SECURED
Specifies that the trigger is considered not secure for row access
control and column access control.
NOT SECURED must not be specified explicitly or implicitly for
a trigger whose subject table is using row access control or column
access control. NOT SECURED must also not be specified for a trigger
that is created for a view and one or more of the underlying tables
in the view definition is using row access control or column access
control.

ENABLE or DISABLE
Specifies the state for the trigger. ENABLE is the default.ENABLE
The trigger will be called during I/O operations.
DISABLE
The trigger will not be called during I/O operations.

WRAPPED obfuscated-statement-text
Specifies the encoded definition of the trigger. A CREATE TRIGGER
statement can be encoded using the WRAP scalar function.
PROGRAM NAME external-program-name
Specifies the unqualified name of the program
to be created for the trigger. external-program-name must be
in the form of a program name. It must not be a service program name.
triggered-action
Specifies the action to be performed when a trigger is activated.
The triggered-action is composed of one or more SQL statements
and by an optional condition that controls whether the statements
are executed. SET OPTION-statement
Specifies the options that will be used to create the trigger.
For example, to create a debuggable trigger, the following statement
could be included: SET OPTION DBGVIEW = *SOURCE
The default values for the options depend on the options
in effect at create time. For more information, see SET OPTION. The options CNULIGN, CNULRQD, COMPILEOPT, NAMING, and SQLCA are
not allowed in the CREATE TRIGGER statement. The COMMIT option is
allowed, but ignored.
The options DATFMT, DATSEP, TIMFMT, and
TIMSEP cannot be used if OLD ROW or NEW ROW is specified.

WHEN (search-condition)
Specifies a condition that evaluates to true, false, or unknown.
The triggered SQL statements are executed only if the search-condition evaluates
to true. If the WHEN clause is omitted, the associated SQL statements
are always executed.A WHEN clause must not be specified with an
INSTEAD OF trigger.

SQL-trigger-body
Specifies a single SQL-procedure-statement,
including a compound statement. See SQL control statements for
more information about defining SQL triggers. A call to a procedure
that issues a CONNECT, SET CONNECTION, RELEASE, DISCONNECT, COMMIT,
ROLLBACK, SET TRANSACTION, and SET RESULT SETS statement is not allowed
in the triggered-action of a trigger.
An UNDO handler
is not allowed in a trigger.
All tables, views, aliases,
distinct types, global variables, sequences, user-defined functions,
and procedures referenced in the triggered-action must exist
at the current server when the trigger is created. The table or view
that an alias refers to must also exist when the trigger is created.
This includes objects in library QTEMP. While objects in QTEMP can
be referenced in the triggered-action, dropping those objects
in QTEMP will not cause the trigger to be dropped.
All transition
variable names are column names of the subject table. System column
names of the subject table cannot be used as transition variable names.
The triggered action of a BEFORE trigger on a column of
type XML can invoke the XMLVALIDATE function through a SET statement,
leave values of type XML unchanged, or assign them to NULL using a
SET statement.
A dynamic statement in the triggered-action can
use 3-part names to access a remote server. A library with the same
name as the trigger program's library must exist on the remote server.
Static statements in the triggered-action cannot use 3-part
names.
Static and dynamic statements in the triggered-action can
invoke a procedure or a user-defined function that can access a server
other than the current server if the procedure or user-defined function
runs in a different activation group.

NotesTrigger
ownership: If SQL names were specified:
If a user profile with the same name as the schema into which
the trigger is created exists, the owner of the trigger is
that user profile.
Otherwise, the owner of the trigger is the user profile
or group user profile of the thread executing
the statement.

If system names were specified, the owner of the
trigger is the user profile or group user profile of the thread executing
the statement.
Trigger authority: The trigger program object authorities
are:
When SQL naming is in effect, the trigger program will be created
with the public authority of *EXCLUDE, and adopt authority from the
schema qualifier of the trigger-name if a user profile with that name
exists. If a user profile for the schema qualifier does exist, then
the owner of the trigger program will be the user profile for the
schema qualifier. Note that the special authorities *ALLOBJ and *SECADM
are required to create the trigger program object in the schema qualifier
library if a user profile exists that has the same name as the schema
qualifier, and the name is different from the authorization ID of
the statement. If a user profile for the schema qualifier does not
exist, then the owner of the trigger program will be the user profile
or group user profile of the thread executing
the SQL CREATE TRIGGER statement. The group user profile will be
the owner of the trigger program object, only if OWNER(*GRPPRF) was
specified on the user's profile who is executing the statement. If
the owner of the trigger program is a member of a group profile, and
if OWNER(*GRPPRF) was specified on the user's profile, the program
will run with the adopted authority of the group profile.
When System naming is in effect, the trigger program will be created
with public authority of *EXCLUDE, and adopt authority from the user
or group user profile of the thread executing
the SQL CREATE TRIGGER statement.

Execution authorization: The user executing the
triggering SQL operation does not need authority to execute a static triggered-SQL-statement.
A static triggered-SQL-statement will execute using the authority
of the owner of the trigger.
REPLACE rules: When a trigger is recreated
by REPLACE:Any existing comment or label is discarded.
Authorized users are maintained. The object owner could change.
Current journal
auditing is preserved.
The firing order of the trigger is not maintained.

Activating a trigger: Only insert, delete, or update
operations can activate a trigger. A delete operation that occurs
as a result of a referential constraint will not activate a trigger.
Hence,
A trigger with a DELETE trigger event cannot be added to a table
with a referential constraint of ON DELETE CASCADE.
A trigger with an UPDATE trigger event cannot be added to a table
with a referential constraint of ON DELETE SET NULL or ON DELETE SET
DEFAULT.

The activation of a trigger may cause trigger cascading.
This is the result of the activation of one trigger that executes
SQL statements that cause the activation of other triggers or even
the same trigger again. The triggered actions may also cause updates
as a result of the original modification, which may result in the
activation of additional triggers. With trigger cascading, a significant
chain of triggers may be activated causing significant change to the
database as a result of a single delete, insert or update statement.
The number of levels of cascading is limited to 200 or the maximum
amount of storage allowed in the job or process, whichever comes first.
Adding triggers to enforce constraints: Adding
a trigger to a table that already has rows in it will not cause the
triggered actions to be executed. Thus, if the trigger is designed
to enforce constraints on the data in the table, the data in the existing
rows might not satisfy those constraints.
Considerations for implicitly hidden
columns: In the body of a trigger, a trigger transition variable
that corresponds to an implicitly hidden column can be referenced.
A trigger transition table, that corresponds to a table with an implicitly
hidden column, includes that column as part of the transition table.
Likewise, a trigger transition variable will exist for
the column that is defined as implicitly hidden. A trigger transition
variable that corresponds to an implicitly hidden column can be referenced
in the body of a trigger.
Read-only views: The addition of an INSTEAD OF
trigger for a view affects the read-only characteristic of the view.
If a read-only view has a dependency relationship with an INSTEAD
OF trigger, the type of operation that is defined for the INSTEAD
OF trigger defines whether the view is deletable, insertable, or updatable.
Transition variable values and INSTEAD
OF triggers: All trigger transition variables in an INSTEAD OF
trigger are nullable.
The initial values for new transition
variables or new transition table columns visible in an INSTEAD OF
INSERT trigger are set as follows:
If a value is explicitly specified for a column in the INSERT
statement, the corresponding new transition variable or new transition
table column is that explicitly specified value.
If a value is not explicitly specified for a column in the INSERT
statement or the DEFAULT keyword is specified, the corresponding new
transition variable or new transition table column is: the default value of the underlying table column if the view column
is updatable (without the INSTEAD OF trigger) and not based on a generated
column or ROWID,
otherwise, the null value.

The initial values for new transition variables or new
transition table columns visible in an INSTEAD OF UPDATE trigger are
set as follows:
If a value is explicitly specified for a column in the UPDATE
statement, the corresponding new transition variable or new transition
table column is that explicitly specified value.
If the DEFAULT keyword is explicitly specified for a column in
the UPDATE statement, the corresponding new transition variable or
new transition table column is: the default value of the underlying table column if the view column
is updatable (without the INSTEAD OF trigger) and not based on a generated
column or ROWID,
otherwise, the null value.

Otherwise, the corresponding new transition variable or new transition
table column is the existing value of the column in the row.

Obfuscated statements: A CREATE TRIGGER
statement can be executed in obfuscated form. In an obfuscated statement,
only the trigger name is readable followed by the WRAPPED keyword.
The rest of the statement is encoded in such a way that it is not
readable but can be decoded by a database server that supports obfuscated
statements. Obfuscated statements can be produced by invoking the
WRAP scalar function. Any debug options that are specified when the
trigger is created from an obfuscated statement are ignored.
A
trigger that is created from an obfuscated statement cannot be restored
to a release where obfuscation is not supported. Consequently, a table
with a trigger created from an obfuscated statement cannot be restored
to a release where obfuscation is not supported.
Creating a trigger with the SECURED option: The
trigger is considered secure after the CREATE TRIGGER statement is
executed. DB2 treats the SECURED
attribute as an assertion that declares that the user has established
an audit procedure for all activities in the trigger body. If a secure
trigger references user-defined functions, DB2 assumes those functions are secure without
validation. If those functions can access sensitive data, a user that
has security administrator authority needs
to ensure that those functions are allowed to access that data and
that an audit procedure is in place for those functions, and that
all subsequent ALTER FUNCTION statements are being reviewed through
this audit process.
A trigger must be secure if its subject
table is using row access control or column access control. SECURED
must also be specified for a trigger that is created for a view and
one or more of the underlying tables in the view definition is using
row access control or column access control activated.
Creating
a trigger with the NOT SECURED option: The CREATE TRIGGER statement
returns an error if the subject table of the trigger is using row
access control or column access control, or if its subject table is
a view and one or more of the underlying tables in the view is using
row access control or column access control.
Transition variable
values and row and column access control: Row and column access
control is not enforced for transition variables and transition tables.
If row or column access control is enforced for the triggering table,
row permissions and column masks are not applied to the initial values
of transition variables and transition tables. Row and column access
control enforced for the triggering table is also ignored for transition
variables and transition tables that are referenced in the trigger
body or are passed as arguments to user-defined functions invoked
within the trigger body. To ensure there are no security concerns
for SQL statements accessing sensitive data in transition variables
and transition tables, the trigger must be created with the SECURED
option. If the trigger is not secure, row access control and column
access control cannot be enforced for the triggering table and the
CREATE TRIGGER statement returns an error.
Multiple triggers: Multiple triggers that have
the same triggering SQL operation and activation time can be defined
on a table. The triggers are activated based on the mode and the order
in which they were created:
MODE DB2ROW triggers (and native triggers created via the ADDPFTRG
CL command) are fired first in the order in which they were created
MODE DB2SQL triggers are fired next in the order in which they
were created

For example, a MODE DB2ROW trigger that was created first
is executed first, the MODE DB2ROW trigger that was created second
is executed second.
A maximum of 300 triggers can be added to any given source
table.
When a trigger is recreated using REPLACE,
its position in the activation order is not maintained. It behaves
as if the trigger were dropped and created again.
Adding columns to a subject table or a table referenced
in the triggered action: If a column is added to the subject table
after triggers have been defined, the following rules apply:
If the trigger is an UPDATE trigger that was defined without an
explicit column list, then an update to the new column will cause
the activation of the trigger.
If the SQL statements in the triggered-action refer to
the triggering table, the new column is not accessible to the SQL
statements until the trigger is recreated.
The OLD_TABLE and NEW_TABLE transition tables will contain the
new column, but the column cannot be referenced unless the trigger
is recreated.

If a column is added to any table referenced by the SQL
statements in the triggered-action, the new column is not accessible
to the SQL statements until the trigger is recreated.
Dropping or revoking privileges on a table referenced
in the triggered action: If an object such as a table, view or
alias, referenced in the triggered-action is dropped, the access
plans of the statements that reference the object will be rebuilt
when the trigger is fired. If the object does not exist at that time,
the corresponding INSERT, UPDATE or DELETE operation on the subject
table will fail.
If a privilege that the creator of the trigger is required
to have for the trigger to execute is revoked, the access plans of
the statements that reference the object will be rebuilt when the
trigger is fired. If the appropriate privilege does not exist at that
time, the corresponding INSERT, UPDATE or DELETE operation on the
subject table will fail.
Errors executing triggers: If a SIGNAL statement
is executed in the SQL-trigger-body, an SQLCODE -438 and the
SQLSTATE specified in the SIGNAL statement will be returned.
Other
errors that occur during the execution of SQL-trigger-body statements
are returned using SQLSTATE 09000 and SQLCODE -723.
Special registers in triggers: The values of the
special registers are saved before a trigger is activated and are
restored on return from the trigger. The values of the special registers
are inherited from the triggering SQL operation.
Transaction isolation: All triggers, when they
are activated, perform a SET TRANSACTION statement unless the isolation
level of the application program invoking the trigger is the same
as the default isolation level of the trigger program. This is necessary
so that all of the operations by the trigger are performed with the
same isolation level as the application program that caused the trigger
to be run. The user may put their own SET TRANSACTION statements
in an SQL-control-statement in the SQL-trigger-body of
the trigger. If the user places a SET TRANSACTION statement within
the SQL-trigger-body of the trigger, then the trigger will
run with the isolation level specified in the SET TRANSACTION statement,
instead of the isolation level of the application program that caused
the trigger to be run.
If the application program that caused a trigger to be
activated, is running with an isolation level other than No Commit
(COMMIT(*NONE) or COMMIT(*NC)), the operations within the trigger
will be run under commitment control and will not be committed or
rolled back until the application commits its current unit of work.
If ATOMIC is specified in the SQL-trigger-body of the trigger,
and the application program that caused the ATOMIC trigger to be activated
is running with an isolation level of No Commit (COMMIT(*NONE) or
COMMIT(*NC)), the operations within the trigger will not be run under
commitment control. If the application that caused the trigger to
be activated is running with an isolation level of No Commit (COMMIT(*NONE)
or COMMIT(*NC)), then the operations of a trigger are written to the
database immediately, and cannot be rolled back.
If both system triggers defined by the Add Physical File
Trigger (ADDPFTRG) CL command and SQL triggers defined by the CREATE
TRIGGER statement are defined for a table, it is recommended that
the system triggers perform a SET TRANSACTION statement so that they
are run with the same isolation level as the original application
that caused the triggers to be activated. It is also recommended
that the system triggers run in the Activation Group of the calling
application. If system triggers run in a separate Activation Group
(ACTGRP(*NEW)), then those system triggers will not participate in
the unit of the work for the calling application, nor in the unit
of work for any SQL triggers. System triggers that run in a separate
Activation Group are responsible for committing or rolling back any
database operations they perform under commitment control. Note that
SQL triggers defined by the CREATE TRIGGER statement always run in
the caller's Activation Group.
If the triggering application is running with commitment
control, the operations of an SQL trigger, and any cascaded SQL triggers,
will be captured into a sub-unit of work. If the operations of the
trigger and any cascaded triggers are successful, the operations captured
in the sub-unit of work will be committed or rolled back when the
triggering application commits or rolls back its current unit of work.
Any system triggers that run in the same Activation Group as the
caller, and perform a SET TRANSACTION to the isolation level of the
caller, will also participate in the sub-unit of work. If the triggering
application is running without commit control, then the operations
of the SQL triggers will also be run without commitment control.
If an application that causes a trigger to be activated
is running with an isolation level of No Commit (COMMIT(*NONE) or
COMMIT(*NC)), and it issues an INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE statement
that encounters an error during the execution of the statement, no
other system or SQL triggers will be activated following the error
for that operation. However, some number of changes will already have
been performed. If the triggering application is running with commitment
control, the operations of any triggers that are captured in a sub-unit
of work will be rolled back when the first error is encountered, and
no additional triggers will be activated for the current INSERT, UPDATE,
or DELETE statement.
Performance considerations: Create the trigger
under the isolation level that will most often by used by the application
programs that cause the trigger to fire. The SET OPTION statement
can be used to explicitly choose the isolation level.
ROW triggers (especially MODE DB2ROW triggers) perform
much better than TABLE level triggers.
Considerations for implicitly hidden columns: A
transition variable will exist for any column defined as implicitly hidden. In the body of a trigger, a
transition variable that corresponds to an implicitly hidden column
can be referenced.
Triggered actions in the catalog: At the time
the trigger is created, the triggered-action is modified as
a result of the CREATE TRIGGER statement:
Naming mode is switched to SQL naming.
All unqualified object references are explicitly qualified
All implicit column lists (for example, SELECT *, INSERT with
no column list, UPDATE SET ROW) are expanded to be the list of actual
column names.

The modified triggered-action is stored in the
catalog.
Renaming or moving a table referenced in the triggered
action: Any table (including the subject table) referenced in
a triggered-action can be moved or renamed. However, the triggered-action will
continue to reference the old name or schema. An error will occur
if the referenced table is not found when the triggered-action is
executed. Hence, you should drop the trigger and then re-create the
trigger so that it refers to the renamed or moved table.
Datetime considerations: If OLD ROW or NEW ROW
is specified, the date or time constants and the string representation
of dates and times in variables that are used in SQL statements in
the triggered-action must have a format of ISO, EUR, JIS, USA,
or must match the date and time formats specified when the table was
created if it was created using DDS and the CRTPF CL command. If the
DDS specifications contain multiple different date or time formats,
the trigger cannot be created.
Operations that invalidate triggers: An inoperative
trigger is a trigger that is no longer available to be activated.
If a trigger becomes invalid, no INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE operations
will be allowed on the subject table or view. A trigger becomes invalid
if:
The SQL statements in the triggered-action reference the
subject table or view, the trigger is a self-referencing trigger,
and the table or view is duplicated using the system CRTDUPOBJ CL
command, or
The SQL statements in the triggered-action reference tables
or views in the from library and the objects are not found in the
new library when the table or view is duplicated using the system
CRTDUPOBJ CL command, or
The table or view is restored to a new library using the system
RSTOBJ or RSTLIB CL commands, and the triggered-action references
the subject table or subject view, the trigger is a self-referencing
trigger.

An invalid trigger must first be dropped before it can
be recreated by issuing a CREATE TRIGGER statement. Note that dropping
and recreating a trigger will affect the activation order of a trigger
if multiple triggers for the same triggering operation and activation
time are defined for the subject table.
Trigger program object: When a trigger is created,
SQL creates a temporary source file that will contain C source code
with embedded SQL statements. A program object is then created using
the CRTPGM command. The SQL options used to create the program are
the options that are in effect at the time the CREATE TRIGGER statement
is executed. The program is created with ACTGRP(*CALLER).
The program is created with STGMDL(*SNGLVL). If the trigger
runs on behalf of an application that uses STGMDL(*TERASPACE) and
also uses commitment control, the entire application will need to
run under a job scoped commitment definition (STRCMTCTL CMTSCOPE(*JOB)).
The trigger will execute with the adopted authority of
the owner of the trigger.
ExamplesExample 1: Create two triggers
that track the number of employees that a company manages. The triggering
table is the EMPLOYEE table, and the triggers increment and decrement
a column with the total number of employees in the COMPANY_STATS table.
The COMPANY_STATS table has the following properties:
CREATE TABLE COMPANY_STATS
(NBEMP INTEGER,
NBPRODUCT INTEGER,
REVENUE DECIMAL(15,0))

This example uses row triggers to maintain summary data
in another table.
Create the first trigger, NEW_HIRE, so that it increments
the number of employees each time a new person is hired; that is,
each time a new row is inserted into the EMPLOYEE table, increase
the value of column NBEMP in table COMPANY_STATS by 1.
CREATE TRIGGER NEW_HIRE
AFTER INSERT ON EMPLOYEE
FOR EACH ROW MODE DB2SQL
UPDATE COMPANY_STATS SET NBEMP = NBEMP + 1

Create the second trigger, FORM_EMP, so that it decrements
the number of employees each time an employee leaves the company;
that is, each time a row is deleted from the table EMPLOYEE, decrease
the value of column NBEMP in table COMPANY_STATS by 1.
CREATE TRIGGER FORM_EMP
AFTER DELETE ON EMPLOYEE
FOR EACH ROW MODE DB2SQL
BEGIN ATOMIC
UPDATE COMPANY_STATS SET NBEMP = NBEMP - 1;
END

Example 2: Create a trigger, REORDER, that invokes
user-defined function ISSUE_SHIP_REQUEST to issue a shipping request
whenever a parts record is updated and the on-hand quantity for the
affected part is less than 10% of its maximum stocked quantity. User-defined
function ISSUE_SHIP_REQUEST orders a quantity of the part that is
equal to the part's maximum stocked quantity minus its on-hand quantity.
The function eliminates any duplicate requests to order the same PARTNO
and sends the unique order to the appropriate supplier.
This example also shows how to define the trigger as a
statement trigger instead of a row trigger. For each row in the transition
table that evaluates to true for the WHERE clause, a shipping request
is issued for the part.
CREATE TRIGGER REORDER
AFTER UPDATE OF ON_HAND, MAX_STOCKED ON PARTS
REFERENCING NEW_TABLE AS NTABLE
FOR EACH STATEMENT MODE DB2SQL
BEGIN ATOMIC
SELECT ISSUE_SHIP_REQUEST(MAX_STOCKED - ON_HAND, PARTNO)
FROM NTABLE
WHERE ON_HAND < 0.10 * MAX_STOCKED;
END

Example 3: Assume that table EMPLOYEE contains
column SALARY. Create a trigger, SAL_ADJ, that prevents an update
to an employee's salary that exceeds 20% and signals such an error.
Have the error that is returned with an SQLSTATE of 75001 and a description.
This example shows that the SIGNAL SQLSTATE statement is useful for
restricting changes that violate business rules.
CREATE TRIGGER SAL_ADJ
AFTER UPDATE OF SALARY ON EMPLOYEE
REFERENCING OLD AS OLD_EMP
NEW AS NEW_EMP
FOR EACH ROW MODE DB2SQL
WHEN (NEW_EMP.SALARY > (OLD_EMP.SALARY *1.20))
BEGIN ATOMIC
SIGNAL SQLSTATE '75001'('Invalid Salary Increase - Exceeds 20%');
END

Parent topic: Statements