Global variables

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Variables > Variables

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Language elements > Variables

Global variables
Global variables are named memory variables that you can
access and modify through SQL statements.
The DB2® database
management system supports the following types of global variables:Built-in global variable
A built-in global variable is part of the database management
system, and is available to any SQL statement that runs on the database
manager. For a list of the built-in global variables and information
on these variables, see Built-in global variables.
User-defined global variable
A user-defined global variable enables you to share relational
data between SQL statements without the need for application logic
to support this data transfer. A user-defined global variable is
associated with a specific session and contains a value that is specific to that session. A user-defined session
global variable is available to any active SQL statement running against
the database on which the variable was defined. A user-defined global
variable can be associated with more than one session, but its value
will be specific to each session. User-defined global variables are
defined in the system catalog.
You can control access to global
variables through the GRANT (Global Variable Privileges) and REVOKE
(Global Variable Privileges) statements.

Global variable names are qualified names. If
an unqualified global variable name is the main object of an ALTER,
CREATE, COMMENT, DROP, GRANT, or REVOKE statement, the name is implicitly
qualified using the same rules as for qualifying unqualified table
names. Otherwise, the SQL path is used for name resolution.
For
static SQL statements and SQL routines, global variables are resolved
for a statement the first time all table references are resolved.
In views, triggers, and other global variables, they are resolved
when the object is created. If resolution were to be performed again
on any global variable, it could change the behavior if, for example,
a new global variable had been added with the same name in a different
schema that is also in the SQL path.
Global variables that are
referenced in dynamic statements will be resolved when the statement
is initially prepared. They will not be resolved again unless the
statement needs to be refreshed because a table has changed.
The
name of a global variable can be the same as the name of a column
in a table or view that is referenced in an SQL statement, as well
as the name of an SQL variable or an SQL parameter in an SQL routine.
Names that are the same should be explicitly qualified. If the name
is not qualified, or it is qualified but is still ambiguous, the following
rules describe the precedence of resolution:The name is checked to see if it is the name of a column of any
existing table or view referenced in the statement at the current
server.
If used in an SQL routine, the name is checked to see if it is
the name of an SQL variable, SQL parameter, or transition variable.
If not found by either of these rules, it is assumed to be a global
variable.
If the SQL_GVAR_BUILD_RULE QAQQINI option is *EXIST
and the global variable does not exist at precompile time or when
an SQL routine is being created, an error will be issued.

When a global variable is referenced in a trigger, view,
routine, or global variable, a dependency on the fully qualified global
variable name is recorded for the statement or object. Also, if applicable,
the authorization ID being used for the statement is checked for the appropriate privilege on the global variable.
Global
variables can be used in any SQL statement that allows a variable.
Global variables can be referenced within any expression except in
the following situations:Check constraints
Materialized query tables (MQTs)
Indexes
A global variable is not allowed if the query specifies: a distributed table,
a table with a read trigger, or
a logical file built over multiple physical file members.

Authorization: If a global variable is referenced
in a statement, the privileges held by the authorization ID of the
statement must include at least one of the following:
For the global variable identified in the statement, The READ privilege on the global variable if the
global variable is referenced, and
The WRITE privilege on the global variable if the
global variable is assigned a value, and
The system authority *EXECUTE on the library containing the global
variable

Database administrator authority

The value of a global variable can be changed using the FETCH, SET, SELECT INTO, or VALUES INTO statement.
It can also be changed if it is an argument of an OUT or INOUT parameter
in a CALL statement.

Parent topic: Variables