Moving Date-Time Data

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operations > Move Operations > Move Operations

IBM i programming resources > ILE RPG > ILE RPG Reference > Operations, Expressions, and Functions > Operations > Move Operations

Moving Date-Time Data

The MOVE and MOVEL operation codes can be used to move Date, Time and Timestamp
data type fields.

The following combinations are allowed for the MOVE and MOVEL operation
codes:

Date to Date

Time to Time

Timestamp to Timestamp

Date to Timestamp

Time to Timestamp (sets micro-seconds to 000000)

Timestamp to Date

Timestamp to Time

Date to Character or Numeric

Time to Character or Numeric

Timestamp to Character or Numeric

Character or Numeric to Date

Character or Numeric to Time

Character or Numeric to Timestamp

Factor 1 must be blank if both the source and the target of the move are
Date, Time or Timestamp fields. If factor 1 is blank, the format of the Date,
Time, or Timestamp field is used.

Otherwise, factor 1 contains the date or time format compatible with the
character or numeric field that is the source or target of the operation.
Any valid format may be specified. See Date Data Type, Time Data Type,
and Timestamp Data Type.

Keep in mind the following when specifying factor 1:

Time format *USA is not allowed for movement between Time and numeric
fields.

The formats *DMYY, *MDYY, *YYMD, *LONGJUL, *CYMD, *CMDY, and *CDMY, and the special values *JOBRUN
and *LONGJOBRUN
are allowed in factor 1. (For more information, see Table 3.)

A zero (0) specified at the end of a format (for example *MDY0) indicates
that the character field does not contain separators.

A 2-digit year format (*MDY, *DMY, *YMD, *JUL and *JOBRUN) can only represent
dates in the range 1940 through 2039. A 3-digit year format (*CYMD, *CMDY,
*CDMY) can only represent dates in the range 1900 through 2899. An error will
be issued if conversion to a 2- or 3-digit year format is requested for dates
outside these ranges.

When MOVE and MOVEL are used to move character or numeric values to or
from a timestamp, the character or numeric value is assumed to contain a timestamp.

Factor 2 is required and must be a character, numeric, Date, Time, or Timestamp
value. It contains the field, array, array element, table name, literal, or
named constant to be converted.

The following rules apply to factor 2:

Separator characters must be valid for the specified format.

If factor 2 is not a valid representation of a date or time or its format
does not match the format specified in factor 1, an error is generated.

If factor 2 contains UDATE or *DATE, factor 1 is optional and corresponds
to the header specifications DATEDIT keyword.

If factor 2 contains UDATE and factor 1 entry is coded, it must be a date
format with a 2-digit year. If factor 2 contains *DATE and factor 1 is coded,
it must be a date format with a 4-digit year.

The result field must be a Date, Time, Timestamp, numeric, or character
variable. It can be a field, array, array element, or table name. The date
or time is placed in the result field according to its defined format or the
format code specified in factor 1. If the result field is numeric, separator
characters will be removed, prior to the operation. The length used is the
length after removing the separator characters.

When moving from a Date to a Timestamp field, the time and microsecond
portion of the timestamp are unaffected, however the entire timestamp is checked
and an error will be generated if it is not valid.

When moving from a Time to a Timestamp field, the microseconds part of
the timestamp is set to 000000. The date portion remains unaffected, but the
entire timestamp will be checked and an error will be generated when it is
not valid.

If character or numeric data is longer than required, only the leftmost
data (rightmost for the MOVE operation) is used. Keep in mind that factor
1 determines the length of data to be moved. For example, if the format of
factor 1 is *MDY for a MOVE operation from a numeric date, only the rightmost
6 digits of factor 2 would be used.

Examples of Converting a Character Field to a Date Field

Parent topic: Move Operations