TRUNC_TIMESTAMP

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions > Scalar functions

IBM i programming resources > SQL > SQL reference > Built-in functions > Scalar functions

TRUNC_TIMESTAMP
The TRUNC_TIMESTAMP function returns a timestamp that is
the expression truncated to the unit specified
by the format-string. If format-string is
not specified, expression is truncated to
the nearest day, as if 'DD' was specified for format-string.
TRUNC_TIMESTAMP(expression,'DD',format-string)
expression
An expression that returns a value of one of the following built-in
data types: a date, a timestamp, a character-string,
or a graphic-string.
If expression is a character or graphic
string, its value must be a valid string representation of a date or timestamp. It is first
converted to a TIMESTAMP(12) value. For the valid formats of
string representations of dates and timestamps,
see String representations of datetime values.
format-string
An expression that returns a built-in character string data type
or graphic string data type. format-string contains
a template of how expression should be
truncated. For example, if format-string is
'DD', a timestamp that is represented by expression is
truncated to the nearest day. Leading and trailing blanks are removed
from the string, and the resulting substring must be a valid template
for a timestamp. The resulting value is then folded to uppercase,
so the characters in the value may be in any case. Allowable values
for format-string are listed in Table 1.

The result of the function is a timestamp
with a timestamp precision of: p when the data type of expression is TIMESTAMP(p)
0 when the data type of expression is DATE
6 otherwise.

If either argument can be null, the result can be null;
if either argument is null, the result is the null value.
ExampleSet the host variable TRN_TMSTMP with the current year truncated to the nearest year value.  SET :TRN_TMSTMP = TRUNC_TIMESTAMP('2000-03-14-17.30.00', 'YEAR');
Host
variable TRN_TMSTMP is set with the value 2000-01-01-00.00.00.000000.

Parent topic: Scalar functions