PRTTXT parameter

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters > Commonly used parameters

IBM i programming resources > Control language > Control language > CL concepts > CL parameters > Commonly used parameters

PRTTXT parameter
The print text (PRTTXT) parameter specifies the text that appears
at the bottom of listings and on separator pages.
Print text is copied from the job attribute when the job enters
the system. Print files that originate on another system do not use the print
text on the target system. Print text exists as a job attribute (PRTTXT) for
defining the print text of a specific job, and as a system value (QPRTTXT)
for the default of jobs with *SYSVAL specified. QPRTTXT is the system-wide
default for all jobs.
The print text can be up to 30 characters in length.
The text should be centered in the form's width and printed in the overflow
area. You should center the required text within the 30 character field.
If
the print text is not blank, the system prints 30 characters of text on the
bottom of each page. This text normally follows the overflow line and is preceded
by a blank line (if the form's length permits). If the user prints past the
overflow line, the print text follows the last line of the user text, again
preceded by a blank line when possible. If the overflow line is the last line
of the form, the print text also prints on the last line of the form, which
may result in the typing over of user text.
The print text
for job and file separators is put on the first line of the separator page.
A job separator contains print text of the job that created the separator
at the time the file was printed. A file separator contains the same print
text as the spooled file it precedes.
The print text can be specified
for all job types. System and subsystem monitor jobs use the system value.
Reader and writer jobs use the system value unless print text is changed in
the QSPLxxxx job description associated with the reader or writer.
The
print text is determined from several places by using the following hierarchical
order. If print text is not specified in one place, the next place in the
order is used.
The hierarchical order, beginning with the highest priority,
is as follows:
Override print file value
Print file value
Job attribute changed by the Change Job (CHGJOB) command
Job attribute set by the Submit Job (SBMJOB) or Batch
Job (BCHJOB) command
Job description
System value

Values allowedFor the system value QPRTTXT, any
character string can be specified, with the exception of *SYSVAL. If *BLANK
is specified, there will be no print text. For PRTTXT, some of the following
values can be selected, depending on the command:
*SAME
The print text does not change.
*CURRENT
The print text is taken from the submitting job.
*JOBD
The print text is taken from the job description under which the job is
run.
*SYSVAL
The print text is taken from the system value QPRTTXT.
*BLANK
There is no text or blanks printed.
'print-text'
Specify 30 characters of text. If there are blanks in the text, then single
quotation marks must be used around the entry. The text should be centered
within the field for the text to be centered on the page.

Parent topic: Commonly used parameters